http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/columns/dated-September-20-1966/article14538864.ece

Shadow of Cold War over UN Assembly sessionWhiffs of the Cold War reminiscent of the years before 1963 are expected to vitiate the atmosphere during the 21st session of the U.N. General Assembly which opens here [United Nations] to-morrow [September 20]. It is almost certain now that the concern growing out of the Viet Nam war will figure prominently during the month-long general debate with the U.S. and the Soviet Union taking opposite sides. The U.N. Secretary-General U Thant was highly critical of U.S. policies in South-East Asia in his annual report and the U.S. Ambassador to U.N., Mr. Goldberg, to-day [September 19] invited the Soviet Union to “act responsibly” and bring about peace talks on Viet Nam and these forecast this possibility. If U Thant persists in his determination to step out of the U.N. Secretary-Generalship then the ensuing wrangle over naming a successor is bound to aggravate the situation. What observers fear is that this return to hostility between the Big Powers will in turn vitiate the discussion of other important matters — progress towards a nuclear non-proliferation treaty on which the Geneva conference has been unable to make any headway, conclusion of a space exploration treaty, extension of the nuclear test ban to underground explosions, efforts to resolve the financial crisis facing the U.N. and agreement over how future peace-keeping operations can be undertaken and financed. In his report to the U.N., U Thant himself has sounded acutely pessimistic on these issues. The one point on which there is unanimity is, however, over the election of an Assembly President. This post will go to an Asian. Abdul Rahman Pashwak, a veteran U.N. diplomat from Afghanistan is the unopposed candidate this year. There will also be no opposition to the admission of three new members to the U.N. Guyana, Bechuanaland and Basutoland will take their seats in the Assembly during the next one month. The controversial issue of China’s seat will come up in October and Washington which has recently reiterated its opposition to admitting Peking claims that it has the votes to block China’s entry this year also, despite the close vote last year. U Thant himself has, however expressed himself once again as being in favour of admitting China — in his report to-day [September 19] he has also revived an earlier proposal of his to give observer status to such non-members as North Korea, East Germany, North Viet Nam and China.United Front of non-Congress parties to contest all seats in KeralaThe joint meeting of the United Front, consisting of seven non-Congress parties, held at Ernakulam last week, decided to contest all the 19 Lok Sabha seats from Kerala and all the 133 seats to the State Assembly in the forthcoming elections. The allocation of seats to the different parties is to be decided at the next meeting of the parties at Ernakulam on October 12. The parties which have agreed to join the United Front are Communist Party (Right), Communist Party (Marxist), Revolutionary Socialist Party, Samyukta Socialist Party, Karshaha Thozhilali Party, Kerala Socialist Party and Muslim League. It appears that the Right Communists are not insisting on getting the same number of seats they contested in the mid-term elections, but would like to have seats allotted to them from all the nine districts in the State and particularly from Malabar. They are also not particular to get into the ministry if the United Front gets a majority in the elections. The policy declaration evolved and accepted at the Ernakulam meeting was released to the Press yesterday [September 19]. It will form the basis for the working of the United Front, if it comes into power.Imports by non-priority industriesMr. Manubhai Shah, Commerce Minister, announced on Sunday [September 18, New Delhi] the new import policy for “non-priority” industries. He told the Import-Export Advisory Council that allocation of foreign exchange for the current half-yearly period had been made at the average of 1964-65 level for the import of raw materials, spare parts and components for these industries. “Non-priority” industries are those which are not covered by the Directorate-General of Technical Development in the list of 59 “priority” industries. The allocation to be made will also cover the import of steel and non-ferrous metals required by them. For the purpose of new allocation, foreign exchange provided in 1964-65, would be converted into “new rupee”, Mr. Shah said. Foreign exchange worth Rs. six crores has been allocated for the import of copra, palm oil, end tallow for soap manufacturing and edible oil industries. The allocation is for the first-half of the current licensing year.