http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/2000-Vinayaka-idols-set-for-immersion-in-Kurnool-today/article14636371.ece

As many as 2,000 Ganesh idols would be immersed in the KC Canal at seven designated spots at the Vinayak Ghat in Kurnool city from Tuesday and arrangements have been made for one lakh people to witness the spectacle.The idols, worshipped for 12 days, would be brought to the Vinayaka Ghat in rallies from three different places in the city, Bharatiya Janata Party State vice-president K. Kapileswaraiah, who is also the honorary president of the Kurnool City Sri Ganesh Mahotsava Kendra Samithi, told the media here on Monday.Viswa Hindu Parishad International president G. Raghava Reddy, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh Prantha Sampark Pramukh Oleti Satyanarayana, RSS Vibhag president G. Raghuramaiah and leader M.D.Y. Ramamurthy would participate in the immersion programme in Kurnool city, Mr. Kapileswaraiah said. The idols would be brought in three processions to the Vinayaka Ghat after Mr. Raghava Reddy flags off the main procession at Sri Rambhotla temple at 9 a.m. on Tuesday.The second procession would start at Hanuman unction (Bellary Chowrasta) at 1.35 p.m. and the third at Kallur Chowrasta at 2 p.m. Rajya Sabha member T.G. Venkatesh would launch the immersion ceremony by lighting a lamp at the Vinayaka Ghat at 2 p.m. and former Union Minister of State for Railways Kotla Jayasuryaprakash Reddy would perform dhwajarohana. Deputy Chief Minister K.E. Krishnamurthy would inaugurate the idol immersion ceremony.Prizes for studentsThe programme would be preceded by Bharatha Matha pooja and distribution of prizes to the winners of essay-writing, elocution and painting competitions conducted for school students, followed by Vinayaka pooja.Mr. Kapileswaraiah and Kendra Samithi president K. Kishtanna advised the Ganesh Utsav Samithi organisers to wear saffron-coloured attire and caps and ensure a devotional atmosphere during the procession of idols. Saffron headgears were brought from Sholapur, they said.PrecautionsThe idols should go in a row without trying to overtake one another. They advised women not to wear gold ornaments and place a paper mentioning their address and mobile numbers in the pockets of children. They urged the organisers and participants to wear traditional dresses, avoid alcohol, sprinkling of colours on pedestrians and bursting of crackers.The police would check all the vehicles and would videograph the processions and take anti-social elements into custody, they said. Ganesh samithis must alert the police if they spotted suspicious elements. As water flow would be intense, people were asked not to venture into the water.Five hundred volunteers and expert swimmers were deployed and five cranes were pressed into service, besides arranging barricades and 100 floodlights, they said.BJP district general secretary K. Narasimha Varma was also present.