http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/200-kg-of-sea-cucumber-seized/article14522989.ece

The Marine police of the Coastal Security Group (CSG) have seized about 200 kg of sea cucumber, an endangered species, protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and detained a man, who procured the species from fishermen at the behest of smugglers. Acting on a tip-off, a special team led by Jothi Basu and Rajkumar, Sub Inspectors of police, CSG visited the Mandapam north seashore on Sunday morning and arrested S Suresh Kumar (37), who collected the endangered species to be supplied to a smuggler from Vedalai.He was shifting the fresh species from one boat to another off the north seashore, after collecting them from local fishermen when the team detained him red-handed. He told the police that he was procuring the species on behalf of smugglers, but did not know them. A contact from Vedalai visited his house to collect the consignment, he said. Interrogation revealed that he had been engaged in the illegal trade for sometime, police said. The Marine police could not detain fishermen who supplied the species to him as he would not name or identify anyone as they had tacit understanding, police said. Earlier, fishermen supplied the species to smugglers if they inadvertently caught them while fishing. But of late, they lay net to catch sea cucumber as it fetched them more money, police said. The police and forest department have advised fishermen to let the sea cucumber back into the sea if they caught them inadvertently. On being handed over, Forest Range Officer (Additional charge, Mandapam range) S Ganeshalingam arrested the accused under sections 9, 39, 50 and 51 of the Wildlife Protection Act. He was produced before the Rameswaram Magistrate court and remanded in judicial custody at the district jail here, he said. This was the fifth seizure made by the Marine police since August after it stepped up the drive against procurement and sale of the banned species. On August 16, the Marine police seized 200 kg of sea cucumber at Thirupalaikudi seashore and detained N Feroz Khan (38). 