http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/24-point-dos-and-don%E2%80%99ts-for-visitors-to-memorial/article14617557.ece

Gearing up for the peaceful conduct of the 59th death anniversary of Dalit leader Immanuel Sekaran at his memorial in Paramakudi on September 11, the district administration and police discussed security arrangements here on Wednesday and unveiled a 24-point ‘dos and don’ts’ for volunteers visiting the memorial.Collector S. Natarajan, who chaired the meeting with Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan and discussed the arrangements with officials, decided to follow all the restrictions imposed for the ceremony last year and ban all types of hired vehicles from transporting volunteers to the memorial.“We will follow the restrictions and system already in place and ensure that the event passes off peacefully,” Mr. Manivannan told The Hindu . As per the ‘do’s and don’ts,’ leaders of registered political parties should register their names with the police and district administration and obtain prior permission for paying homage at the memorial.Those who wished to visit the memorial using their own vehicles should obtain vehicle passes from the police after giving details of the vehicles and occupants, an official release said.Like last year, ‘mulaipaari’ and milk pot processions would be allowed only within one km stretch near the memorial. Padayatra would be banned elsewhere in the district.Volunteers were also banned from carrying flags, festoons and banners while travelling in buses, private vehicles and prohibited from raising slogans, aimed at whipping up communal passion, it said.The authorities had identified 19 routes open for volunteers from the district and warned them against taking 14 banned routes. They had also identified specified routes for volunteers coming from other districts and parking lots in Paramakudi. The government would organise special bus services on September 11 for the benefit of villagers who wished to visit the memorial and pay homage.Stern action would be taken against those who travelled on rooftops of buses and other vehicles, carrying flags and shouting slogans. Fle xboards and posters would be allowed only inside Paramakudi town, with required permission. Like last year, volunteers of Devendra Panpattu Kazhagam would be allowed to regulate the crowd at the memorial site, the release added.District Revenue Officer M. Ali Akbar and Sub Collector (Paramakudi) G.S. Sameeran and others were present in the meeting.