http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/8-people-injured-during-stabbing-attack-at-Minnesota-mall/article14500744.ece

 Eight people were injured during a stabbing attack at a Minnesota shopping mall that ended with the suspected attacker who was dressed in a private security uniform and made references to Allah shot dead by an off-duty police officer, authorities said. St. Cloud Police Chief Blair Anderson said during a news conference shortly after midnight that eight people were taken to St. Cloud Hospital with non-life-threatening injuries following the attack first reported about 8-15 p.m. on Saturday at the Crossroads Center. One person was admitted. No further details were released. Mr. Anderson said an off-duty police officer from another jurisdiction shot and killed the unidentified suspect, who was armed with a knife and wearing a private security firm uniform at the time of the attack. Mr. Anderson did not say where the off-duty officer serves. Mr. Anderson also said the suspect made at least one reference to Allah during the attack and asked at least one person whether they were Muslim. But Mr. Anderson declined to call the attacks an act of terrorism, saying the motive for the attacks isn’t known yet. “We will be diligent and get to the bottom of this,” Mr. Anderson said. “Starting tomorrow, things won’t be the same here.” Local police had three previous encounters with the suspect, most for minor traffic violations, Mr. Anderson said, adding that the FBI had offered to help with the investigation. Authorities “have no reason to believe” anyone else was involved in the attacks, Mr. Anderson said. He said the stabbings occurred in several places within the mall, including corridors, businesses and common areas. “The entire mall is an active crime scene,” Mr. Anderson said. The mall remained on lockdown following the incident, but authorities expected those remaining inside to be released early Sunday. Photos and video of the mall taken hours after the incident showed groups of shoppers waiting to be released, including some huddled together near a food court entrance. “All of a sudden I heard pop, pop, pop,” Harley Exsted told the St. Cloud Times. “I thought someone tipped over a shelf. All of a sudden these people started running. I just saw everybody running our way.” There also were reports of some shots fired during the attack. The couple were unharmed and said they helped another woman who was running from the scene to her car. Adonis Samuels, 42, of St. Cloud, was outside the mall where his wife Roxanne is employed as a manager at Clinique at Macy’s. “She called me on the phone and told me she was hiding under the counter with a customer,” Samuels said. She later called and said she was safe in a secured area. Mr. Samuels remained outside, watching for her. He said he’d seen her through the glass doors at one point so he knew she was safe. St. Cloud is about 70 miles (112.65 km) northwest of Minneapolis. 