http://www.thehindu.com/life-and-style/food/A-burrata-from-your-backyard/article14454405.ece

Chennaiites are no strangers to cheese. We put it on everything, from pizzas where it’s meant to be, to dosais, where it tastes just as delicious. And, it’s not just staid processed mozzarella and cheddar or creamy spreads that line supermarket dairy sections. We love our Camembert, blue cheese, Gouda and Gruyere as well. Cheesemaker and aficionado Aditya Raghavan says the city’s proximity to Puducherry, and Auroville’s artisanal cheesemakers, has resulted in “Chennai, unlike Delhi, Mumbai or Kolkata, not considering cheese such a novel concept. Actually, the city has been ahead of even Bangalore in that respect. But, it still remains a niche product”. While we consume cheese quite happily, there are hardly any cheeses made in the city. Elsewhere, people are happy to go with imported cheeses from Europe, which are now quite affordable, for occasional use. Aditya says that in Mumbai, a number of artisanal cheesemakers focus on creating a local market. Bringing this concept to Chennai are Anuradha Krishnamoorthy and Namrata Sundaresan. When they discussed the idea of creating employment opportunities for the differently abled, they wanted to do something unique. As Namrata had recently learnt cheese-making, they decided to give it a shot. That’s how Käse came into being in May this year. “We trained a few girls and started off with one or two kilos a day, working on a made-to-order basis. With our Facebook page up and running, we started getting more orders through word-of-mouth,” says Anuradha.In their Abhiramapuram facility, where they currently make and sell their products from, we chat over a platter of their signature cheeses. This includes a mozzarella with tomato and fresh basil from their rooftop herb garden, halloumi encrusted with a mixture of mint, herbs and spices, and a caramelised onion-and-cream cheese dip. Namrata says, “We started with a couple of varieties, and now we have around 10, including burrata, feta with charred leek and our ‘Ode to Chennai’, which is coated in gunpowder. When customers buy from us, we are able to educate them on the different ways in which the cheese can be used.”Apart from this, Käse also offers curated platters for wine and cheese evenings, and desserts such as ricotta tiramisu, salted caramel cheesecake and quark banana chocolate mousse. Anuradha says that they have been lucky to get good suppliers of milk, and, through trial and error, figured out which milk is best for which kind of cheese. Namrata adds, “We are surprised by the kind of growth we have had. Our staff has also adapted well; they have started specialising as well. One of them makes excellent feta and another excels at mozzarella.”However, the first in the city to set out on the exciting journey of cheesemaking was The Farm. Shalini Philip, who runs the restaurant in a dairy farm on OMR, says, “The restaurant itself was started out of a necessity to keep the dairy farm functional. We made dairy products such as curd and ghee that were necessary for our use, apart from sweets like rasgulla. But how much ghee does a restaurant need? So, the idea of making cheese came up about three years ago. Aditya Raghavan helped, and we started with mozzarella to use on our pizzas. Ricotta is an inevitable by-product. Diners could tell the difference in quality quite distinctly. They wanted to take the cheese back home. That’s how it started and grew quite organically.”Buffalo mozzarella, bocconcini, ricotta, mysost, feta… “When you make one kind of cheese for yourself, it’s different. Then, you’re experimenting and putting out several types, including Jack and labneh, and suddenly, you’re considered a cheesemaker,” laughs Shalini. “We never planned for this. But now, we have our signature Tomme de Semmancheri. The tomme is usually named after the village where it is produced, hence the name. This one is made from the curd culture that has been used on the farm for the past 40 years; so, it’s very apt,” she adds.As to why Chennai has too few cheesemakers for a city that thrives on dairy products, Shalini, Aditya, Namrata and Anuradha have the same thing to say— the climate and fickle weather conditions are not very conducive. Aditya says, “It’s easiest to make fresh, young cheeses such as ricotta and mozzarella. Feta is not young per se, it is a young aged cheese. But you don’t require an ageing facility, which could be very expensive. Most cheeses come from Europe and are historically made at temperatures of 10 to 13 C.”Shalini explains that with ageing, the cost goes up, making it unviable for producers. “If we have to age a cheese at those temperatures for three years, imagine the electricity costs alone!”The other factor is the imported cheeses — which are far from top-notch — flooding the market. While it’s common perception that anything from abroad has to be better than anything found locally, the inverse is actually true. In the age of locavorism, choose to explore home-grown brands in your city over anything packaged and with a use-by date longer than a month.