http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/A-gold-lining/article14410662.ece

A gold lining This refers to the articles, “Devendra’s javelin strikes gold at Rio” and “Competing for an equal world” (Sept. 15). Sports lovers across the country were quite miserable after the Rio Summer Olympics where India’s largest-ever contingent of 118 returned with just two medals. But the Paralympic athletes from India have proved to be a silver lining. The fact that they have already clinched two gold medals, a silver and a bronze is a fantastic achievement. Athletes like Mariyappan Thangavelu and Devendra Jhajharia might not be household names yet, but the glory they have brought to the nation is admirable. Differently abled athletes and able-bodied athletes all have to go through the same grind and achieve results only after undergoing the rigours of training, but it is the former on whom such tough training schedules would take a heavy toll. It is time that we dissolved all distinctions between the two categories and ensured that both are given equal opportunities to excel.C.V. Aravind,Bengaluru It is a great achievement that four of the 1500m runners in the Paralymics were faster than Rio Olympic gold medallist Matthew Centrowitz. This feat has blurred the distinction between Paralympics and the Summer Olympics. It is even more remarkable that the person who stood first, Abdellatif Baka, is visually impaired. His achievement along with the achievements of the Indian athletes stand testimony to the power of the human will and body. With proper talent spotting and guidance, we can produce more such people. Saishankar Swaminathan,ChennaiParalympic athletes might be challenged physically but not in spirit. The 19-member contingent from India has already brought quite a few laurels and this highlights the fact that they don’t let what they don’t have hinder their success; in fact, they try to get better with what they have. Harshita Padala,HyderabadDynastic politicsPromoting family members in politics seems to be India’s curse (“As brother & son continue sparring, Mulayam steps in”, Sept. 15). This tendency towards dynastic politics allows many of the inefficient and undesirable to rule. The result is that there is no accountability. The simmering discontent between the son and brother of Mulayam Singh Yadav is bound to destabilise the politics of the largest State as there is a possibility of the cohorts and loyalists aligning with their respective leaders within the party. This may ultimately lead to cleaving the State’s politics, and everything apart from good and reliable governance will be guaranteed. V. Lakshmanan,TirupurWater-sharing disputeThe Cauvery issue, which should be solved scientifically, has turned into an emotional one (“Stray violence on Cauvery issue mars peace in T.N.”, Sept. 15). Both Karnataka and Tamil Nadu need to optimise their water conservation. Tamil Nadu must build more dams and reservoirs as its storage capacity is less, and also make better use of sea water. A Cauvery Management Board should be formed as soon as possible so that there is a constant check on the allocation of water. The two States also need a technical committee to measure the availability of water and decide the allocation to each State accordingly. Effective functioning of the Board and the committee may help avoid the recurring clashes.Prasanth Sahoo,Visakhapatnam The Cauvery dispute has caused a loss of around Rs.25,000 crore to Karnataka. Bengaluru’s reputation has taken a beating. It is an irony that most of the people who resorted to arson and stone-throwing are not the ones impacted by the water crisis. These people are part of a violent fringe; they are parochial. One wonders where the actual farmers are — both from the Mandya and Thanjavur delta regions — and what they feel. Who knows what we can achieve if the political parties take a back seat and allow the farmers from both sides to enter into negotiations with guidance from experts? Perhaps they can find a solution more effectively. Also, the concept of a bandh was earlier exercised as a peaceful weapon in a democracy. In our country, it is seen as a reason to indulge in destruction of public property and as another opportunity to get a holiday. For anything and everything, a bandh comes in handy; no one bothers to check if these bandhs even solve the problem. Nowhere in the world does a ruling government join a bandh as has become a part of the culture of our country. Saishankar Swaminathan, ChennaiDeaths due to disease The death toll in Delhi and elsewhere in India due to dengue, chikungunya and malaria indicates that very little has been done by the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (“Sapping India’s vitality”, Sept. 15). The blame game being played out over this shows the inability of the Delhi government and the Delhi municipal corporation in controlling these diseases. Sri Lanka just made headlines for eradicating malaria. India should take lessons from its neighbour.Gregory Fernandes,Mumbai Ensuring cleanliness inside homes and surrounding areas (parks, streets, mohallas, markets, and so on) should be the priority of every individual. We never seem concerned about garbage piling up in vacant plots and spaces. There should also be a complete ban on plastics. Water must not be allowed to stagnate anywhere. Only collective efforts can help India achieve its goal of eliminating malaria by 2030. The government should make optimum use of the Swachh Bharat Cess to improve civic amenities. We also need to resolve the issue of Delhi statehood because civic bodies are more interested in playing the blame game than executing their duties and responsibilities.Baninder Rahi,New DelhiNepal-India ties The article “Letting Nepal be” (Sept. 15) appears to be downright critical of India’s policy in Nepal. No doubt, India should look beyond Nepal’s Constitution crisis and explore other avenues for bettering relations. But the writer overlooks the fact that India’s intervention in Nepal is only well-intentioned and driven by the genuine need for stability in the country. Without such intervention, the Madhesi protest will continue to linger. Its fallouts will be seen in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. India has undoubtedly only played a positive role in Nepal’s development. Against this background, we can’t simply say that India is being a bully. Pallav Kumar,New Delhi India’s intervention in Nepal has led to bitterness. No leader of a country, however small the country is, would like the idea of being led by a bigger and mightier neighbour in matters concerning its internal politics. India’s intervention will only aggravate the already existing tension between the two countries. History has shown that intervention of this kind has always backfired: that the U.S.’s interventions in West Asia have been largely responsible for the growth of the Islamic State cannot be questioned. N. Visveswaran,Chennai