http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/A-host-of-events-to-treat-elderly-persons/article14642511.ece

VISAKHAPATNAM: Bringing the elderly on to a platform and creating a space for them to network better, senior citizens welfare associations and HelpAge India are teaming up to organise a series of events to mark International Day of Older Persons observed on October 1.Theme With the current year’s theme being ‘Take a stand against ageism,’ the associations intend to educate elderly persons on their rights, policies, programmes and facilities that can be availed. A walkathon involving over 500 members of Walkers’ Club, Pensioners’ Associations, senior citizens associations, NGOs and a number of volunteers will be held on the Beach Road from Kali Mata temple to Kursura Submarine Museum at 6 a.m. on that day. SeminarTo help the elderly deal with age-related problems, Sneha Sandhya, a recreation and welfare society for senior citizens, is hosting a seminar at Andhra University Platinum Jubilee Guest House on the same day at 5:30 p.m. “Experts from diverse fields will talk about healthcare and policies and educate the participants on various government schemes,” says Ch. Venkata Rao, chairman of the association. Another rally will be conducted by Varishta Pourula Samakhya at Gajuwaka main road at 9 a.m. This will be followed by a meeting at SBT hotel. “Apart from coordinating for the processions, we are designing special banners, handouts, pamphlets and a range of materials to distribute to 40 senior citizens welfare associations located across the State. The idea is to build awareness on breaking stereotypes, offering tips on ageing gracefully, the importance of maintaining their own network and being part of the community association,” says L. Mrinal, liaison manager of the local chapter of HelpAge India. FocusSrikakulam, Vizianagaram, Kakinada, Tadepalligudem, Tanuku, Palakollu, Nidadavolu and Eluru are some of the places identified to organise programmes that also focus on creating awareness on separate tribunals in districts for the elderly. As part of its need-based projects, HelpAge India plans to host workshops to educate the elderly on handling smart phones and accessing mobile Apps. 