http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/A-slow-recovery-for-small-enterprises/article14460815.ece

 After the floods levelled almost everything they had, salt pan owners in Kelambakkam and flyash brick manufacturers and aquaculture farmers in Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts have learnt that they have to fight their own battles. And, that they cannot depend on doles from governments and have to take their own precautionary measures. “Our machinery was marooned in water and raw materials, including lime and cement, got washed away. Many units stood without work for months together. But all that we got was a rebate in interest for the loans taken for repairs. Nobody opted for that. Around 40 of the 65-odd units are still functioning at half their capacity,” said a flyash brick manufacturer. “The Central government uses flyash bricks in all its constructions. The works in IIT-Madras are standing examples of that. Similarly, if the PWD also decides to use these bricks, we will get more orders and even units that have closed down can resume operation,” said V. Sathyanarayanan, State Coordinator, Tamil Nadu Flyash Bricks and Blocks Manufacturers Association.Salt manufacturers want more openings beneath the Kelambakkam- Kovalam road that was washed away last year. “Only two pipes have been laid at that spot. More such facilities will allow faster discharge of water from Vandalur and the Okkiyam Maduvu, and prevent flooding in our lands and elsewhere too. One development after the floods is that the Muttukadu estuary is not being allowed to silt up,” said K. Mariappan, President, Covelong Salt Manufacturers and Merchants Association. ‘Not much help’Small farmers, who run aquaculture units, also did not get much help from the government. Sivagnanam, a farmer, said his loss was not compensated in any manner. “Though officials sympathised with us, they told us there was no way they could help us since we don’t come under agriculture or fisheries. We sat through the floods watching the fish and shrimp being washed away, unable to do anything,” he said. 