http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/ABC-drive-yet-to-gather-pace-in-district/article14459974.ece

 The Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme is yet to take off in five municipalities and 16 grama panchayats in Ernakulam district found fit for the immediate launch of the programme, thanks largely to the reluctance of government veterinary surgeons and shortage of dogcatchers. North Paravur, Angamaly, Aluva, Thripunithura and Muvattupuzha municipalities were found equipped to launch the ABC programme at a meeting of local body heads convened by the District Collector on September 1. The municipalities have fully-equipped veterinary polyclinics. Attitude of vets“Except for North Paravur and Angamaly municipalities, which have reported a shortage of dogcatchers, the other three municipalities can launch the programme any time if not for the reluctance of veterinary surgeons to operate on stray dogs,” an official associated with the implementation of the programme told The Hindu. The official said the insistence of veterinary surgeons to hire hands to operate the ABC programme citing overburden was unacceptable since it was part of their duty. It was pointed out that around 300 veterinary surgeons in the State were trained in ABC programme using government funds at the Ooty-based World Veterinary Society (WVS) centre. “Even otherwise, they are trained in ABC programme as part of their veterinary course. Hence to bargain with the government using organisational strength for hired hands, draining the exchequer, is deplorable,” sources said. Hiring of doctorsHowever, Jayachandra Kammath, deputy director at the District Animal Husbandry office, said it was decided at a Chief Ministerial-level meeting that the ABC programme would be implemented using doctors hired on contract since the government veterinary surgeons already had their hands full. He said the ABC drive at Perumbavoor, North Paravur and Muvattupuzha would be intensified while it could not be undertaken in Thripunithura owing to practical difficulties such as the absence of shelters and in Aluva municipality owing to the lack of initiative by the local body. Mr. Kammath said the district panchayat had allocated Rs.1.75 crore for the implementation of the ABC programme and it would be implemented in local bodies, which provided basic infrastructure such as shelters and the service of dogcatchers. 