http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Amazon-India-betting-big-on-its-fashion-segment/article14642616.ece

VISAKHAPATNAM: E-commerce major Amazon India has seen a tremendous traction from tier 2 and tier 3 towns as it trains its focus on the fashion segment. With 15,000 brands in its portfolio, Amazon Fashion has witnessed a 150 year-on-year growth overall and over 250 per cent year-on-year growth in Andhra Pradesh. “Visakhapatnam is the largest sale contributor to AP’s overall sale for Amazon Fashion with a 200 per cent year-on-year growth. We have witnessed a similar growth from tier-2 and tier-3 towns with more than 55 per cent of orders coming from there. Easy access to brands that are not available in these cities is the main reason behind this,” Mayank Shivam, Category Head, Amazon Fashion, told The Hindu on Thursday. Amazon Fashion is now among the top three categories for the Indian arm of the global e-commerce giant which contributes 30 per cent of the total customers of Amazon India, he said. Speaking about the demand from Visakhapatnam, he said, “The city is the largest sale contributor to AP’s overall sale for Amazon Fashion. In the personal jewellery section, Visakhapatnam is among the top five cities where demand comes from.” Amazon is also focussing on enhancing the site experience by integrating technology, especially for its mobile app. “Amazon Fashion has the highest traffic coming from mobile app contributing close to 40 per cent of the total mobile app sessions to overall Amazon. Incidentally, over 60 per cent of the total orders on app for Amazon Fashion comes from outside the top eight cities,” Shivam said. According to a report by Google, fashion segment in India is expected to be the single largest product category in online retail by 2020 and is set to cross the Rs 2 lakh crore mark, offering much higher margins than books and electronics. Recently, big corporates such as Aditya Birla’s Abof.com, Reliance’s Ajio and Tata’s CLiQ have entered the online space with a major focus on fashion. Shivam said that market has enough scope for multiple players in India’s booming online fashion market and it is confident of taking to lead. Amazon India recently launched its first private label ‘Symbol’ as it looks to tap this growing product category in e-commerce.