http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/Food/And-pop-goes-the-candy/article14370870.ece

Have you been to the Sugar pop candy store here in Coimbatore ? I stumbled upon it purely by accident at the Le Meridien hotel and fell head over heels. Brightly painted lips and pretty candy stripes on the walls , prints of sweets, coloured poofs that look like clear boiled candy all share a happy space . The tall mannequin in the middle flaunts a vibrant skirt made entirely of candy wrappers .The fun and fun and quirky. The first time we visited this store was in fact at Chennai. My companion was thrilled to bits and bought herself a raspberry flavoured EOS lip balm. Imagine our excitement when we were told by Michelle, who manages the store and is head of marketing , that the Coimbatore store was bigger and had lots more goodies on offer! The creative head behind the Sugar pop concept is Anandhi Periasamy , who having lived abroad for many years found the need for a candy store that was visually fun as well as unique. After a great deal of research ,she identified the kind of stuff that she wanted to sell in the store. She is also in charge of sourcing the products which she does through her frequent travels. The inventory that the store carries of each item is quite minimal. That’s understandable considering that a lot of these sweets are not cheap and have been carefully hand carried from different parts of the globe.On one side , you see the jelly bellies , the heads and tails oreo , the rainbow’s nerd rope and on the other side you have exotic chocolate bars with matcha tea and Himalayan pink crystal salt. That’s when I realized that this is more than just a ‘pander to your frivolousness’ candy store. One entire shelf has dark chocolate where a percentage of the proceeds go to saving endangered animals, chocolate with no added sugar, organic chocolate with chilli, black rice and quinoa. PB&J chocolate bars from Trader joe’s, black sesame candy from Asia, blueberries and acai in dark chocolate, salt water taffy, push pop candy from Taiwan , assorted fruit extracts in Disney shapes, all vie for attention in the brightly lit store.Teh goodies are displayed in bell jars, giant glass goblets, open mouthed shallow bowls, all tempting the visitor to try at least one. I also spotted the cigarette sweets that I loved as a kid. Remember they used to come printed with the phantom comic images? I had to stop eating that when my dad thought the cigarette candy holding looked too similar to the real thing!There is also the ‘Sooper Dooper Reindeer pooper’ which is an adorable little reindeer with a pile of dark and milk chocolate poop balls. I'm sure there are many kids who would love to have a go at that.I had to ask Anandhi to pick her favourite and she immediately picked the freeze dried astronaut ice cream. She says it’s so cool because it’s low in calories, dehydrated in a hygienic manner and it’s exactly what is eaten in space. It's not that easy to come by which makes it more special.Sugarpop also caters to custom requirements and would love to elevate the candy eating experience to a whole other level. If the sweets don’t tempt you,the pumpkin pie chap stick just might !www.sugarpop.in