http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/Andhra-girl-tops-Telangana-Eamcet-3/article14411009.ece

The Eamcet-3 results were released here, with the Committee deciding to award eight marks to all the candidates after taking into account the objections raised by students and teachers. The Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) Chairman T. Papi Reddy, JNTU Vice-Chancellor A. Venugopal Reddy and Eamcet-3 Convenor T. Yadaiah, who released the results, said that out of the 37,180 appeared candidates, 36,834 qualified and were awarded ranks. Only 70 students failed to clear the exam while ranks of 259 candidates were not given as the details of their Board were not given. Regalla Prapulla Manasa of Gudivada bagged the first rank scoring 152 marks. P. Sri Harika from Secunderabad secured second rank followed by Tejaswini of Anantapur (3rd), Zeeshan Ahmed of Bahadurpura (4th), Ikram Khan from Mehdipatnam (5th) and Adla Sreekanteshwar Reddy from Alwal (6th). They all scored 151 marks. Mitappally Alekya from Khammam, Nuzhath Fatima from Adilabad, Kavya Balusu from Begumpet and Vempati Roopeessh from Miryalaguda secured 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th ranks respectively securing 150 marks each. The JNTU V-C and Eamcet-3 Chairman Prof. Venugopal Reddy said that the committee decided to award 8 marks to all the candidates for fairness. The ambiguity in answers was due to tough questions set by IIT experts and they had a different view of the answers. “We approached the IIT experts to avoid the regular Eamcet paper setters given the leakage earlier as we wanted to be doubly sure of avoiding all those who were part of the earlier exam,” he said.Officials also said questions in Physics subject were interpreted differently by the experts, paper setters and the students. From IIT teachers’ point of view there was nothing wrong with the questions , but they were tough for a normal Eamcet taker to comprehend. A senior official said that even regular paper setters of Eamcet were reluctant this time as the police officials were regularly questioning some of them as part of the Eamcet-2 leakage investigation. Moreover, there was hardly any time for the new team to prepare for such an important exam. Prof. Reddy said as a part of transparency, scanned copy of OMR answer sheets of all the candidates will be put on the website and they can be downloaded from ‘http://tseamcet.in’ from 10 a.m. on September 16 to 5 p.m. on September 17. Candidates who wishes to submit a representation about any discrepancy have to pay Rs. 5,000 (Rs. 2,000 in case of SC & ST candidates). Each valid representation received with fee will only be examined and the decision of the committee will be final. The amount will be refunded to the candidate in case the challenge is accepted by the Committee. Among all the qualified candidates 36,232 are from the regular Intermediate stream while 497 are from CBSE stream, 22 from the ISC stream and 17 are from the Open School System. 