http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/Andhra-Bank-on-expansion-mode/article14636414.ece

Andhra Bank has set a target to open open 300 branches in 2016-17 and of them 100 have already been opened. The thrust areas are “un-banked” areas, mostly rural, where the population is about 5000, Andhra Bank Executive Director S.K. Kalra said.Most of the 300 branches are in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana because the bank has the responsibility of being convener of State Level Bankers' Committee and lead bank in Andhra Pradesh and lead bank for some districts in Telangana, he says.In the last four years the bank doubled its branches with the total at 2839.On expansion in other parts, he said the bank now had pan-India presence going to areas which were not thrust areas earlier. The bank has grown in a big way in the North also and in all it has 36 zonal offices, including at Ludhiana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Lucknow, Meerut, Patna, Bhopal Ahmedabad and Pune.On the stress on banks, he says the bank is providing funds as per the stricter provisioning norms. With an operating profit of Rs.1000 crore per quarter, it is able to overcome the pressure in economy and industry by making provisioning. The entire operating profit is mostly going for provisioning, particularly during the last four quarters.“Once industrial scenario is upgraded that provisioning will come back to the bank. If “achhe din” come that provisioning will come back and that is strengthening the balance and nothing is being lost,” Mr. Kalra told The Hindu .Credit off-take as a whole is not that big but Andhra Bank is doing it in all sectors, agriculture, retail and funding to Andhra Pradesh government being the major ones. On the economic scenario, Mr. Kalra said in road projects there was some revival, particularly in EPC contracts.On resolving the tangle of NPAs, he sees no dearth of strategy or need for creating mechanisms with more teeth. With SARFESI Act and debt recovery and appellate tribunals, the entire machinery is working, Mr. Kalra says.