http://www.thehindu.com/business/Apollo-Tyres-eyes-two-wheeler-radial-tyre-space/article14373180.ece

 Apollo Tyres is seriously toying with the idea of entering the two-wheeler radial tyre space.Giving a broad hint to this effect, Satish Sharma, President, Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa, Apollo Tyres, said the two-wheeler radial tyre idea had gone from the drawing-board stage to a more serious level. “We hope to get the two-wheeler radial tyre out in the next 14-16 months,’’ he added. Stating that it would be based on the company’s own technology, he indicated that the two-wheeler radial tyre could be made out of its Baroda facility. To a question on possible capacity and investment, he said things were at a very nascent stage at the moment. Tyres typically fall in two categories - bias and radial.The company had entered the two-wheeler tyre segment in March this year. Mr. Sharma said Apollo Tyres was keen to grow this business going forward. “Though two-wheeler tyre business is a fledgling child, the company has great plans for this segment,” he added.The company, according to Mr. Sharma, is currently selling about a lakh two-wheeler tyres (non-radial) a month. He was confident that this number would go up to 2-2.5 lakh units a month by the end of this fiscal.Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Sharma said the company was on course to double its capacity from the existing 6,000 tyres a day. The expansion would involve an investment outlay of around Rs.2,700 crore, he added. He said the company would rely on a combination of internal accruals and debt to finance the expansion. The expansion in capacity would happen over the next 24 months, he added. The capacity expansion and foray into two-wheeler tyre space, he said, were part of an elaborate game-plan to gain leadership position in the Indian tyre industry. The entry into two-wheeler arena especially would help the company gain a foothold in the rural market, in addition to helping it beef up its distribution, establish a fuller presence across segments and catch consumers early, he pointed out.Mr. Sharma said the unbridled Chinese imports at predatory prices had been hurting the domestic tyre industry’s cause. The cheap Chinese imports would jeopardise the ‘Make in India’ pitch of the NDA Government, he said. He was ‘glad that the Centre had found merit in the industry’s argument and accepted its anti-dumping application against Chinese imports.’