http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/App-to-end-parking-woes/article14636416.ece

With the increase in vehicle density on Indian roads, one of the biggest problems is finding a place to park. According to statistics, the average waiting time a user spends looking for parking is 11 minutes. Visakhapatnam-based startup Parkeeze has come up with an application to help people find a place to park even before arriving at the venue. Founded by a team of engineering students - Jagadeesh V, Pranay Metta, Neeharika Kimmi, Abhishek Piedy and Harsha Lenka – the startup has tied up with a Hyderabad mall at Kukatpally and is set to roll out the app in the Android platform in the first week of October.The team is also in talks with two malls in Visakhapatnam to introduce the app-based parking solution in the city.“We are in the process of registering the company at present. Parking is a key issue, especially in metro cities like Bangalore and Delhi. In the initial stages, our main focus will be these tier-1 cities,” the startup’s marketing and design in-charge Pranay Metta told The Hindu . The startup founders are engineering students, who have developed the first version of prototype and tested it with 150 customers. “Based on their feedback, we are adding some more features before we launch it shortly,” Metta added.The app allows you to pre-book a parking slot in advance before you arrive at the place. It works with simple steps. First, the user has to register the parking lot on the application, choose the parking tariff, wait for verification and start pre-booking. The user can book an open slot up to 30 minutes prior to his or her arrival at the place for a minimal service fee.There are at present three similar startups in India offering parking solutions. Recently, Agile Parking Solution startup ‘Get My Parking’ secured Rs 2.5 crore funding. In view of the developments in the sector, the team of Parkeeze is upbeat and are also in the final stages of talks with an investor for raising funds.