http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/AU-to-launch-FINTECH-coursefrom-next-academic-year/article14641589.ece

VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra University has been selected to launch the FINTECH course from the next academic year.This was finalised at a recent high-level meeting involving the Vice-Chancellor of AU, officials from the AP State Higher Education Department and CEO of MNCs such as HSBC, JP Morgan, Wealth Objects, Fidelity, Chartered Institute for Securities and Investments and UBS Business Solutions. The meeting was chaired by Special Chief Secretary and IT Advisor to Chief Minister, J.A. Chowdary. Speaking to The Hindu, Vice-Chancellor of AU G. Nageswara Rao said it was decided to start two cutting-edge and industry-specific courses that would cater to the sectors such as banking, insurance and financial markets.As of now it has been decided to start a two-year MBA programme and a one-year diploma programme, both the programmes will be conducted by the Department of Commerce and Management.It is a first of its kind initiative in the State directly involving a university, government and the industry.The course content, syllabus, time table and the modules, will be decided by the industry and even the resource persons will be provided by the industry, said Prof. Nageswara Rao.The content will be industry-specific and the university will provide its resources and infrastructure. Though the intake and admission norms are yet to be finalised, the industry captains have assured 100 per cent placement. The modalities will be finalised at a meeting to be held on October 6.According to Prof. Nageswara Rao, the course will be unique, as in the two-year programme, the students will spend one-year in the college and the second year will be internship programme in the industry. In the one-year diploma programme, it will be six months college and six months practical exposure. “Once a student completes the course, he or she will be absorbed by the industry,” said the V-C. In the ongoing B.Com programme in the distance mode in AU, HSBC has increased its admission quota from 40 to 100, from this academic year.Prof. Nageswara Rao said AU has a tie-up with HSBC for providing B. Com programme to about 40 employees of HSBC through the distance mode. 