http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/puducherry/Auto-drivers-seek-curbs-on-bike-rentals/article14639518.ece

 A road roko at the intersection of Jawaharlal Nehru Street and Mission Street by autorickshaw drivers’ unions affiliated to Left parties as part of their one-day strike to press for various demands caused hardship to the public because of traffic diversions at several points on Wednesday.The strike was to highlight their demands, including constitution of a welfare board, fixing of minimum fare at Rs. 40, and imposing restrictions on two-wheeler rentals. Among the worst affected by the strike were schoolchildren because many of them relied on autorickshaws for going to school.The autorickshaw drivers, who assembled on the street, in front of the Church of Our Lady of Immaculate Conception by around 10 a.m. to stage a protest there suddenly changed their plan and marched towards the J.N. Street. The protesters numbering around 100 squatted on the busy junction connecting J.N. and Mission Streets, prompting traffic police to shut movement of vehicles along J.N. Street. The traffic was diverted traffic from Raja Theatre Junction resulting in traffic snarls on other roads.The police were caught off guard as permission was given only to hold a demonstration near the church. The sit-in dharna, which went on for more than half an hour, was finally called off after police threatened to arrest the protesters. A posse of police, led by Superintendent of Police, North Venketasamy, and circle inspector, Grand Bazaar, Jintha Kothandaraman was posted to meet any eventuality.Autorickshaw drivers mostly owing allegiance to the Centre of Indian Trade Union, All India Trade Union Congress, and the pro-AINRC union, parked their vehicles near the Court Complex and took out a march to the Legislative Assembly. The unions affiliated to the Congress, the DMK, and the AIADMK did not participate in the protest after the government promised to consider their demands.According to an autorickshaw driver, the two-wheeler rental business had cut into their revenue, particularly on weekends, and so the government should bring in some regulation. On weekends, tourists were increasingly depending on two-wheelers to commute while in the town, he said.“The autorickshaw drivers should first think why tourists avoid their service. If they come to us, it is because the autorickshaw drivers charge hefty sums compared to other places, though the petrol price is far less here,” said a businessman on J.N Street, who was highly critical the way the unions conducted Wednesday’s strike.