http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Vijayawada/CM-to-participate-in-World-Heart-Day-programme/article14642204.ece

 Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu will participate in the World Heart Day (WHD) celebrations being conducted by the Cardiological Society of India, A.P. Chapter, (APCSI) and the Dr. Ramesh Education Society at the Indira Gandhi Stadium on September 29.APCSI president P. Bhaskar Naidu told the media on Thursday that after State bifurcation the APCSI was conducting the celebration in Andhra Pradesh for the first time. He said the Cardiological Society, a non-profit and non-governmental organisation, was formed in 1924 to promote awareness about heart diseases. Citing the case of popular actor Akkineni Nageswara Rao, who underwent a bypass surgery, Dr. Naidu said that the actor lived for 30 years after the surgery and died of old age at the ripe age of 89. If heart disease was detected in time death and damage could be prevented. He said the Chief Minister agreed to participate in the celebration that would begin at 7 a.m. and end at 9 p.m. Students and others would participate in programme.APCSI secretary and MD of Ramesh Group of Hospitals P. Ramesh Babu said that ways of resuscitating persons during emergencies using basic life-saving skills would be demonstrated to the gathering at the programme. Important factorsGeneral exercise, yoga and dieting were very important for persons who were either prone to or suffering from various forms of heart ailments. Early detection and bringing the patients in the “golden hour” were also important in reducing death rate and morbidity, he said. The Chief Minister would also launch the Maddipati Lakshminarayana Memorial Foundation that had come forward to fund paediatric cardiac operations.Ramesh Hospitals chairman M. Ramamohana Rao said that his family members had created a corpus fund to sponsor the activities of the foundation. The foundation would meet all additional expenditures of a child was covered under a government scheme and it would meet the entire expenditure of a child not covered. Former Loyola College lecturer and management consultant M. C. Das was present. 