http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Co-optex-weavers-bag-national-awards/article14617811.ece

It was the age of child labour when Padma, Lalitha and Mohan learnt the art of weaving in their homes from their parents in Kancheepuram. They have continued the family tradition of weaving wonders and have now reaped dividends.A sari with one-foot zari border on both sides and exquisite gold brocaded pallu won D. Padma the National Handloom Award from Union Minister Smriti Irani recently.She brought to life the forgotten motif of peacock and chakra in a bright orange-pink silk sari. It took Padma 20 days to create the breath-taking sari.“I have to use three shuttles and the ‘korvai’ technique, which is difficult for adults to manipulate. Until 10 years ago we used to get children to do this but with ban on child labour the technique is not pursued,” explained Padma, whose daughter is employed in Chennai and son is a final year Engineering student.She began weaving at the age of 13 and is associated with Thiruvalluvar Silk Weavers Cooperative Society (WCS). Padma has received a memento, cash and certificate.At 60, D. Lalitha of Murugan Silk WCS, opted to create a wonder – a four coloured silk sari with a detailed decorative pallu, winning a certificate of merit. Lalitha, who has studied up to class XI, was married in to a traditional weaver family and continued the profession. Both her sons are carrying forward the tradition. One of her sons-in-law, however, works as a teacher. She said it took her 15 days to weave the award-winning sari.M.K. Mohan of Kanchipuram Arignar Anna WCS and son of a freedom fighter has been weaving for 20 years. He is 73 and his four children are in the profession. His creation was an elegant green, maroon and yellow silk sari with mango and chakra design running across in horizontal patterns. The maroon pallu includes an ancient motif called ‘cheepu’ (comb). It took him 19 days to weave the sari. He has also received a certificate of merit.For the couple Jayanthi and B. Krishnamoorthy, who hails from a family of weavers, of Kancheepuram, it was a family affair. They won a national award each for weaving designs. Enamoured by traditional patterns, the duo have taken up reviving old designs with gusto. Currently, they have taken up a project to revive the Valangi design for silk sarees, and it is nearly complete, he explains. “I have started working on this traditional designing concept six months ago. While I used to sketch the design stage by stage, my wife, Jayanthi completes the graphing part of it”, he adds. Earlier, the traditional ‘sorghavasal’ pattern revived by him was welcomed widely.Since the original masterpieces will remain with the Ministry some of the artisans have recreated the award winning saris, which would be sold by Co-optex, said T.N. Venkatesh, its managing director.