http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/College-goers-can%E2%80%99t-imagine-life-without-photocopies/article14451365.ece

 For a DU student, studying from sets of spiral-bound photocopies is so much a part of life that when you ask them about the High Court’s observation of “copyright not (being) a divine right”, they draw a blank. “If photocopies are banned, how will we study the suggested readings? The books are not available in shops. It is the bookshops that sell the photocopies,” says Anvay Joshi, a third year student who was purchasing a new set of readings for the term.Owners’ speakThe owners of photocopy shops that line the streets of Patel Chest, in fact, are clueless about the storm raging outside. “Many students buy the readings because they have been recommended by the University and are specific to DU. You won’t get them compiled elsewhere. Even if we lose one page, it becomes a task to find it again,” says Praveen Gujral, who owns a photocopying kiosk.“Even books that are available cost a few thousand rupees. At these shops, the complete version is available for under Rs.1,000. Which DU student will spend a few thousand rupees on a book? The fee for a quarter of a semester is the same as one book,” says Jagdev, another store owner.Students also feel that buying original books is not an option. Ishvender Singh, a final year Economics (Hons.) student at HansRaj College welcomed the landmark decision. “We are financially dependent on our parents, and many of us are from the middle and low-income groups. It is very difficult for us to pay PG and hostel fee, and then shell out thousands for semester books,” he said. Namrata Sehrawat, a second year Economics (Hons.) student at Kirorimal College said that readings were better than the books students are asked to read. The readings, Namrata said, consist of chapters by different authors, which help the students understand topics better. “Books are expensive; every student can't afford them, but readings are pocket-friendly,” she adds.Photocopy centres, says students, are a boon. “The photocopy shops near Patel Chest Institute give us a compilation of all chapters by different authors at a reasonable price. Even our seniors have told us that we can get good marks by reading them,” remarked Rana Pratap, an SRCC student.