http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/Congress-loses-Arunachal-as-43-MLAs-join-BJP-ally/article14427487.ece

Politics turned a full circle in Arunachal Pradesh on Friday when 43 of the 44 Congress MLAs, including Chief Minister Pema Khandu, joined the People’s Party of Arunachal (PPA), a part of the North-East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), a BJP-led front. Just two months ago, Mr. Khandu and his group of Congress rebels had deserted the PPA and returned to the Congress to form the government. Mr. Khandu became the Chief Minister on July 16, replacing Nabam Tuki, who in turn had replaced Kalikho Pul after the Supreme Court reinstated the Tuki government. During Mr. Pul’s four-and-a-half month tenure, he and other MLAs had formed the PPA and joined the NEDA. Illegitimate, says Congress Hours after losing its government in the State, the Congress dubbed the new dispensation an “illegitimate child of the BJP” and blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief Amit Shah. “The mandate of the people of Arunachal Pradesh, who voted the Congress to power, has been robbed in broad daylight,” Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala told reporters in New Delhi. In Itanagar, Mr. Khandu justified the decision, saying the State lacked resources hence they had moved to join the PPA. “I have already released Rs 1,200 crore and we have more deficit,” Mr. Khandu said, hinting that his government had not received support from the Centre. Government spokesperson Pasang D. Sona said the Centre and the State “need to be in tandem”. and that the decision was fuelled by regional aspirations of the people. “We felt that a regional identity is needed right now to fulfil the aspirations of the people,” he said. Deputy Chief Minister Chowna Mein echoed Mr. Sona, saying the move was initiated to “build better relations with the Centre.” Government spokesperson Pasang D. Sona said the Centre and the State government “need to be in tandem” and that the decision was fuelled by regional aspirations of the people. “We felt that a regional identity is needed right now to fulfil the aspirations of the people,” he said. Deputy Chief Minister Chowna Mein echoed Mr Sona, saying the move was initiated to “build better relations with the Centre.” State BJP chief Tapir Gao welcomed the decision and said the decision to join the BJP at a later stage lies with Mr Khandu. “The ball is in his court,” Mr Gao said. He congratulated Mr Khandu “for joining the Congress-mukt Arunachal”. Mr Khandu said while his party will be with the BJP in NEDA, he ruled out the possibility of the saffron party coming to power in the state. Friday’s development came abruptly although talks of a possible merger were going on. Mr Sona said “discussions have been on for quite some time” but didn’t disclose the exact timeline. The 60-member State Assembly has an effective strength of 57. The status of two MLAs, Wanglam Sawin and Gabriel D Wangsu, is currently pending with the Speaker following contentions that they were wrongly disqualified. Another seat fell vacant when Mr Pul allegedly committed suicide on August 9. After Friday’s development, there are currently 43 PPA MLAs, 11 BJP MLAs, two independents and one Congress, with Mr Tuki being the lone Congress member. (The writer is a freelancer journalist)