http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Curfew-lifted-in-Bengaluru/article14637937.ece

Normalcy returned to violence-hit Bengaluru on Wednesday, a day of after uneasy calm prevailed in the city following large-scale violence over Cauvery water sharing row with Tamil Nadu.Transport vehicles were back in service and establishments functioned normally, senior police officials said, adding, adequate measures have been put in place to prevent occurrence of any untoward incidents.Curfew, imposed late on Monday night, was lifted in 16 police station limits of the city. However, prohibitory orders are still in place. The city police have now initiated investigations to identify the perpetrators who indulged in violence.The updates:3.00 p.m.: Police Commissioner N.S. Megharikh says there is no bandh call. Most shops and commercial establishments open on Wednesday after two tense days.12.33 p.m.: Curfew has been lifted in all 16 police station limits of the city, confirms Police Commissioner N.S. Megharikh.12.31 p.m.:Mohit M. Rao reports from Bengaluru: Few shops in Hegganahalli open despite police asking them to remain shut. Shopkeepers are saying they can't afford to keep the shutters down.Many provision shops are open while schools remain shut. Traffic is significantly low, but vehicles moving about.11.47 a.m.: KSRTC bus services have resumed in Mysuru.11.45 a.m.: Though government has not declared holiday for schools and colleges, few private institutions remain shut.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Tuesday:8.30 pm: In the wake of the prevailing situation in Bengaluru due to the Cauvery water issue, domestic airlines including national carrier Air India today announced waiving off flight cancellation/ rescheduling changes for some of their flights for a specified period. Air India said it would not charge any fee for cancellation of a ticket or rescheduling of its flights to and from Bengaluru and Hubballi upto September 16. Private carriers Jet Airways and Vistara also said they have decided to waive off date and flight change fee due to the situation in the Karnatka capital.7.10 pm: Namma Metro will commence operation this evening, 13th September from 7-15pm onward in both Line 1 and Line 2 up to normal closing time. Trains will run at a 15-minute frequency. Frequency will be increased depending on the rush. Normal service will resume on Wednesday morning.6.30 pm: Offices of IT giants TCS, Infosys and Wipro as also e-commerce majors Flipkart and Amazon remained closed in Bengaluru today. Many employees were asked to work from home as the companies invoked business continuity plans to ensure there is no disruption to mission critical projects. India’s top three IT firms —— Tata Consultancy Services, Infosys and Wipro —— which have a significant presence in the city declared a holiday today. The three alone have over 70,000 people working at their campuses in the country’s IT capital.6.00 pm: At Coimbatore, at least 30 NMK activists, led by its district secretary Wahab, raised slogans against Karnataka and went to Karnataka Association hall in Tatabad, police said. However, they were stopped near the Association building and arrested. At Neyveli, police foiled protestors’ bid to burn an effigy of Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramiah and detained activists of the Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi.5.30 pm: In Chennai, unidentified men pelted stones at an ATM of Karnataka Bank, damaging the glass panes, police said. Activists of NMK held protests outside hotels owned by natives of Karnataka in different places in Chennai and around 12 people were arrested when they tried to enter the premises at Mylapore.3.24 p.m.: Cabinet decides to abide by Supreme Court direction on Cauvery issue. Chief Minister Siddaramaiah says those defying law will be dealt with firmly.3.04 p.m.: Another person succumbs to injuries sustained during Monday's violence.2.52 p.m.: The Bengaluru police have arrested over 300 persons in connection with Monday’s violence. The hunt is on to arrest those who have incited violence, says Home Minister G. Parameshwara.He also cautions miscreants of stringent action. “The government will not spare anybody who indulges in violence and destruction of public property,” he said. >More...2.22 p.m.: The police have provided security to the estate of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief M. Karunanidhi's daughter Selvi at Vaderhalli on the outskirts of Bengaluru, following a protest demonstration by members of the Samata Sainik Dal (SSD). >More...1.06 p.m.: Leader of Congress in the Lok Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge urges Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene by convening a meeting of the Chief Ministers of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. >More...12.24 p.m.: Modi >appeals for calm in the two States. "Whenever the country has faced adverse circumstances, the people of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, just like people across the country, have always handled the situation with sensitivity. I appeal to the people of the two States, to display sensitivity, and also keep in mind their civic responsibilities," he says.11.54 a.m.:Mohit M. Rao reports from Bengaluru:There is an uneasy calm in Mysuru road, the epicentre of violence on Monday. Traffic is low, but vehicles and pedestrians are seen despite the curfew. No protests or violence reported. Services at Satellite Bus Stand have come to a standstill.11.27 a.m.: The Karnataka government has announced a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to the family of Umesh who died in police firing on Monday.11.20 a.m.:P.V. Srividya reports from Hosur:According to Superintendent of Police, Krishnagiri, Mahesh Kumar, no vehicles will be allowed to cross over until the situation across the border attains normalcy. He says exceptions may be made for AP registered vehicles.11.09 a.m.: Information & Broadcasting Minister M. Venkaiah Naidu has appealed for calm in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Mr Naidu says the dispute is being looked at by the Supreme Court of India and should not be brought in to the streets.11.07 a.m.:For flight status update, DM us using >#flightstatus <flight name> or get updated using our app 'BLR Airport' available on Android / iOS— BLR Airport (@BLRAirport) >September 13, 201610.55 a.m.:>#CauveryProtests : Public are requested to use Karnataka Police Help Line 18004250100 or 155365 for any emergency/assistance/help >@CPBlr— Abhishek Goyal (@goyal_abhei) >September 13, 201610.37 a.m.: The Mandya division buses are not being operated. Mysore city division buses are not being operated towards KRS and Srirangapatna. No TN-bound buses are running from Kolar, Bangalore Central Division, Chamarajnagar and Mysore rural division.10.34 a.m.: Metro services in Bengaluru have been temporarily suspended. No incidents of violence in Karnataka.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Monday:11.30 p.m.: Instructions have been issued by Coaching Dte, Railway Board to run a special train from Bangalore to Trivandrum tomorrow on the request of Karnataka govt, according to a message from Sr. DCM, South Western Railway, Bengalur Division.11.15 p.m.: Curfew has been imposed in parts of Bengaluru.Curfew has been imposed in police station limits in Rajgopal Nagar; Kamakshipalya; Vijaynagar; Vijaynagar; Byatarayanpura; Kengeri; Magadi Road and Rajajinagar.11.00 p.m.: One person was killed, while a few were injured when security police fired at a mob at Laggere late on Monday.Around 7.30 p.m., a mob of around 50 people were seen ransacking a shop at Hegganahalli Cross near Laggere.A Hoysala patrolling vehicle and a platoon of the Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) rushed in to contain the situation. However, the mob turned their ire on the police vehicle and attempted to torch the Hoysala car, said officials. Eventually, the police fired 12 rounds to disperse the crowd.In the melee, at least five people sustained injuries. While most of them suffered bullet injuries to the leg, Umesh (25) was reportedly killed. He is from Kunigal taluk and was working at a petrol bunk in the city for the past six years.10.00 p.m.: Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa writes a letter to Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah asking him to "ensure the safety and security of many lakhs of Tamil speaking people residing in Karnataka."8.00 pm: KSRTC has cancelled night buses to kerala via Mysore. Many have booked unreserved train tickets after buses cancelled operations.6.30 pm: At least 30 buses of a private transport operator from Tamil Nadu torched by an angry mob at its depot at Nayandahalli.5.41 pm: More than 30 Tamil Nadu lorries have been damaged so far. They were moving on the NH4 near Sathyamangala around 4.30 pm in Tumakuru city. One lorry was set on fire and was doused by police and fire personnel who had been parked on the premises of Balaji rubber factory.Unidentified miscreants pelted stones on the lorries, after which they fled. The lorries have been taken to a safer place.The lorry that was set on fire. Photo: Special Arrangement5.40 pm: Shops in K.R. market, Kalasipalya and J.C road closed.5.35 pm: Around 200 people have been detained by police since the morning for participating in the protests: Home Minister G. Parameshwara5.30 p.m.: Amid escalating tension in Karnataka over the Cauvery water dispute, the Centre today assured all assistance to the state to maintain law and order and ensure peace. “I am in touch with the Chief Secretary of Karnataka and whatever help is required will be provided,” Union Home Secretary Rajiv Mehrishi told reporters here.5.18 p.m.: Section 144 imposed across Bengaluru, Pandavapura and all four dam sites as violence intensifies.4.57 p.m.: A fringe Tamil-outfit barges into a Karnataka Bank branch and created ruckus. Around 25 workers of the Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi enter the branch on Misson Street wielding broomsticks and ask bank staff to vacate the premises.4.31 p.m.:4.16 p.m.: Stones pelted at Poorvika mobile store and Murugan Idli Shop at Indiranagar in Bengaluru4.13 p.m.: Buses stopped on Mysuru road area.4.11 p.m.: Chief Minister Siddaramaiah says > he will write to Chief Minister Jayalalithaa to help maintain cordiality between the two States. Siddaramaiah says he will also speak to Home Minister Rajnath Singh, if necessary, on the incidents targeting Kannadigas.4.02 p.m.:Police removing TN registration plate and Tamil writing from a car for "safety". Photo: Mohit M. Rao3.54 p.m.: All Tamil Nadu-bound bus services have been stopped. Also, Kerala-bound buses that go through Tamil Nadu have been stopped. We will take a call on whether night services to Kerala should operate depending on situation, says KSRTC spokesperson3.44 p.m.: Shops in Mysuru road have been shut.3.39 p.m.: Pro-Kannada activists enter Mantri Square on Sampige Road in Malleswaram. BMTC services have been stopped from Satellite bus station on Mysuru Road.2:15 pm: Bengaluru's Namma Metro has suspended its service since 12:30 pm as a precautionary measure. Several schools and colleges have declared half day leave and asked the students to go back home. Police have been deployed heavily on bus stations as a preventive measure.2.00 pm: S. Prasad reports from Chennai: Thirty persons owing allegiance to various Pro-Tamil outfits were arrested when they attempted to lay siege to the Karnataka Bank located. >Read More1.57 p.m.: R. Sivaraman confirms from Chennai that four persons have been arrested in connection with the attack on New Woodlands Hotel.1:10 pm: Adyar Ananda Bhavan sweets stall ransacked in Mysuru Road, Bengaluru.A lorry with TN registration number was set on fire in Timber Yard Layout, Bengaluru. Photo: G.P. Sampath Kumar12.50 p.m.: Laiqh A. Khan reports from Mysuru: Karnataka's border with Tamil Nadu along Chamarajanagar district has been sealed in the wake of fresh disturbances reported in the Cauvery basin districts."We have sealed the borders and not allowing any vehicle to pass through" said Superintendent of Chamarajanagar district police Kuldeep Kumar Jain.The district police have set up checkposts on the seven roads leading to Tamil Nadu from Chamarajanagar district.One truck bearing Tamil Nadu registration number was pelted with stones in Chamarajanagar. One person has been arrested in the connection.However, vehicles are going up to the border, where passengers are alighting and crossing the checkpost by foot before taking a different vehicle to their respective destinations in Tamil Nadu, police said.12.44 p.m.:Mohit M. Rao reports: KSRTC stops bus services to TamilNadu. Buses in Tamil Nadu are being monitored by the local police, who have assured KSRTC of complete protection.12.30 p.m.: The TN DGP has called for a high-level meeting to review the situation on the Cauvery issue along the State borders. It'll go on for an hour from now.As of now there has been no incident of bus burning anywhere in the State. Just heavy police deployment along the border.12.14 p.m.:P.V. Srividya reports from Hosur:The permission granted to Tamil Nadu buses to enter Jujuvadi ended on Sunday night. Superintendent of Police Mahesh Kumar told The Hindu that a 150-strong police force is monitoring the border post. Police are not allowing the movement of Tamil Nadu vehicles across the border.However, Karnataka buses are being allowed entry to ease the movement of commuters across the border.Situation remains incident-free at the border.12.09 p.m.: The Supreme Court directs Karnataka to release 12,000 cusecs Cauvery water a day to Tamil Nadu till Sept 20.12.06 p.m: Bus services stopped from Ramnagara to Tamilnadu. A Tamil Nadu lorry was attacked near the police training school in Ramnagara. It was heading to Bengaluru from Mysuru.12.02 p.m.: Tamil residents attacked in Pandavapura and their six shops attacked and destroyed.