http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Development-promises-in-illegal-colonies-ring-hollow/article14596326.ece

SewageFed up of their pleas going unheard by the agencies concerned, residents of Durga Park in East Delhi’s Dallupura area took matters in their hands and came up with a plan to collect sewage from the colony.The solution they came up with involves all the sewage getting collected in a pit, which is drained by a pump into the Hindon drain right behind the colony. Locals say that neither MLA (Kondli) Manoj Kumar, nor MP Maheish Girri were of much help in this situation.The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), too, expressed inability to help due to lack of funds, they rued. With no help at hand, residents of Durga Park in East Delhi's Dallupura have devised a way to collect and dispose sewage from the colony. Photo: Sushil Kumar VermaThe civic body, however, did provide the pump that is now being used to extract the waste and dump it into the Hindon canal.Located next to a kuccha road used as a shortcut by the residents of this colony, the open pit is a breeding ground for flies and mosquitoes.PowerWhen it comes to problems with electricity, it is largely the consumers themselves who are to blame.Even though losses incurred due to power theft have come down to 15 per cent in the Capital, it is most prevalent in the unauthorised colonies. Though losses incurred due to power theft have come down to 15 per cent in the Capital, the situation is far from ideal in the unauthorised colonies. Photo: Sushil Kumar VermaIn the colonies located in Outer Delhi’s Najafgarh, Burari and Bawana, cases of power theft continue to be as high as 60 per cent.For instance, take this scene from Sant Nagar’s Nehru Gali in Burari.GarbageOver the years, residents of illegal colonies have created their own garbage dumps in vacant plots.While the inhabitants should definitely act more responsibly, they complain that sanitation workers deployed by the MCD are irregular.Besides, illegal constructions in the form of extensions to houses continue unabated in almost every second lane of Delhi’s unauthorised colonies. Many unauthorised colonies, like Shiv Vihar in Khanpur extension, have turned vacant plots into garbage dumps. Photo: Sushil Kumar VermaNeighbours get peeved as the workers dump construction waste in the streets.The owners, meanwhile, never bother to get the area cleaned.Such is the blatant violation of rules here that residents have forcefully tilted a pole to ensure there is enough space to build the first and subsequent floors.RoadsColonies in North Delhi’s Wazirabad, East Delhi’s Chilla Block-A and several others in South Delhi have broken roads.The situation is aggravated due to rampant illegal construction. Owners who get houses rebuilt or add extra floors do not hesitate to block an entire street with mounds of cement and sand. Residents of illegal colonies like Wazirabad want drainage to be improved before the roads get a facelift. Photo: Sushil Kumar VermaYet, inhabitants of illegal colonies are not very bothered by the poor condition of the roads.According to them, improving roads while turning a blind eye towards drainage problems won’t serve the purpose.“A gush of rain will take away the sheen from a concrete road if a drainage system is overlooked. There is no point if water logging still persists,” says Sunita, who lives in E-Block, Sangam Vihar.DrainageDrainage systems in unauthorised colonies are almost non-existent. Jawahar Park of Ambedkar Nagar has manholes, but there are hardly any drains. Photo: Sushil Kumar VermaFor example, Jawahar Park of Ambedkar Nagar (in the picture below) has manholes, but there are hardly any drains running along the boundary of houses that connect to the primary channel. This, in turn, leads to waterlogging in the lanes here. Besides, as is the case in Block A of Sant Nagar and Satya Vihar in Burari (right) , storm drains that run from the rooftops find outlets onto the roads below. Thanks to the drains that lack a primary channel and storm water drains finding an outlet on the roads, waterlogging is not a rare sight. Photos: Sushil Kumar VermaThere are storm water drains in most lanes here as the roads were built recently, edge-to-edge from the walls of houses. And in case you find a drain, it is either found damaged or filled with plastic waste.