http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/DMK-urges-Centre-Karnataka-to-compensate-Tamils-for-losses/article14522920.ece

 The DMK on Sunday demanded compensation for Tamils who suffered losses in the violence over the Cauvery row in Karnataka.A resolution adopted at its meeting of district secretaries here alleged that prisoners were released to unleash violence against the Tamils and damage their property. “They damaged vehicles from Tamil Nadu and set them on fire. Tamils lost property worth crores of rupees. The Union and Karnataka governments should provide compensation to the affected Tamils,” the resolution, adopted at the meeting presided over by party president M. Karunanidhi, said.The meeting also held the Tamil Nadu government responsible for the present crisis, saying that it had failed to make preparations in advance for the release of water from Mettur on June 12 for kuruvai cultivation. “The government did not monitor the water level at the dam. It also did nothing to keep ready the canals through which water flows from Mettur. Its failure resulted in farmers taking to the streets,” the resolution said.Another resolution condemned the Centre for “its failure to constitute the Cauvery Management Board and Cauvery River Regulation Committee in time” and said all problems would have been resolved if these two bodies were constituted. “Only the Cauvery Management Board has the legal powers to direct and question the Karnataka government [over water release],” it said.Pointing out that Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah had convened all party meetings several times and had led a team of MPs and Opposition leaders to Delhi to meet the Prime Minister and Central Ministers to present his State’s case, the DMK said Ms. Jayalalithaa, in contrast, functioned unilaterally and never bothered to call for an all-party meeting. “We condemn the autocratic attitude of the Chief Minister,” a resolution said.The meeting also discussed preparations for the local body polls in the State.