http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Tiruchirapalli/Festember-begins/article14642701.ece

TIRUCHI: Classical Indian and Western music bands, literary workshops and a host of other fun activities are just some of the events lined up for the 42nd edition of ‘Festember’, the annual inter-college festival of creative arts hosted by National Institute of Technology- Tiruchi (NITT).The three-day event got underway on Thuursday in the presence of Carnatic vocalist S. Sowmya and T. Jeyaseelan, president, Sanmar Engineering Technologies. The theme for this year is “Cultural Syncretism” with the tagline “Bond Boundlessly”, with an aim of promoting social harmony and peace between the different cultures in the world. The mascot for this Festember is the lovable panda named Polo.Festember’s opening concert, the ‘Fusion Night’ featured sibling duo Ambi Subramaniam, a classical violinist and pianist and Bindu Subramaniam, a Western vocalist, who performed with their SubraMania band. Ambi and Bindu are the children of acclaimed violinist, composer and conductor L. Subramaniam.Dance competitions in Eastern and Western styles, clubbed under the ‘Choreo Night’ tag, will be held on Friday. Among the other contests being held today will be the AV and Buzzer Quizzes, Crossword, Dumb Charades and Scrabble. An ‘EDM Night’ of electronic dance music is also to be held today.‘Gigahertz, Battle of the Bands’ will follow on Saturday for semi-professional Western musicians.‘Shruthilaya’ will test Carnatic vocalists and musicians, while ‘Ghibran’s Talent Hunt’, an initiative started by the noted Kollywood film composer that nurtures newcomers and tests youngsters in Eastern solo vocal and instrumental skills, will also take place on Saturday. The Rock Night on Day 2 has the very first international performance of Festember this year. Featuring the Guns ‘n’ Roses cover band Guns ‘n’ Hoses, the New York-based female band will be presenting hits like ‘Sweet Child O Mine,’ ‘Paradise City,’ and ‘Welcome to the Jungle.’ Contests in A cappella singing and English music will also be held on Saturday.Sunday’s events, clubbed under ‘Tarangini’ will be held for Eastern music bands.The Hindi film music composers Sachin and Jigar will be the guests at the ‘Popular Night’ event on Sunday, when Festember draws to a close.Besides this, those attending Festember can also look forward to guest lectures by Indian jazz and blues artiste Sid Sriram, adman Suresh Triveni and playwright Mahesh Dattani. Workshops in kendo, mask-making, beat boxing, tango, roller skating and theatre are among the variety of subjects available throughout the festival.Among the celebrity judges invited to Festember are Tamil poet and film lyricist Madhan Karky, who will be judging the ‘Kavithidal’ contests. Pralayan will judge the ‘Koothambalam’ competitions, while Bharathi Thirumagan and Kalaimagan will give their verdict on ‘Villupaatu’. Mr. India 2015 runner-up Rahul Rajsekharan Nair and fashion designer Swathi Purushothaman will judge the Mr. and Mrs. Festember competition.On the indie stage, Thrill Veera will show off his juggling skills, while singer-musicians Raia and Kate Black-Regan will present concerts. Nearly 3,000 students are expected to take part in the national-level contests of Festember, and they will be accommodated on the institute’s campus, said an organising committee member. All the competitive and non-competitive events, some of which will be held in Telugu and Hindi besides Tamil and English, are open to the public to. More details can be had from https://festember.com/16/home/