http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Fusion-with-an-Indian-accent/article14376382.ece

If you track food in the city, consider yourself a foodie, or just want outside validation for your dining choices, chances are you’ve heard of Manish Mehrotra and his much-praised restaurant Indian Accent, in the New Delhi boutique hotel The Manor.Accolades galoreThe restaurant’s profile rose considerably in 2013, when it appeared on Asia’s 50 Best Restaurant list at number 41. It has steadily climbed the rankings in subsequent years and is number nine in the 2016 list. And Indian Accent is placed at 87 on the 2016 longlist of 100 best restaurants in the world. Earlier this year, Mehrotra added another feather to his cap when he expanded to New York, opening at the Le Parker Meridien on 57th Street, steps away from the Museum of Modern Art and an avenue-and-a-half over from the luxury shopping outlets on 57th and 5th. For Mumbaikars who have yet to make a trip to Delhi — or New York — to eat at his restaurants, there’s reason to rejoice. Mehrotra will be doing a stint in the city, at Magazine Street Kitchen from September 25 to 28, where he will be cooking three dinners and two lunches .Back to the cityAhead of the visit, Mehrotra filled us in on the plans for the dinner, his style of cooking, as well as where he’s looking forward to eating in Mumbai. The answer to the last question, if you must know, is Atul Kochhar’s NRI and Lima, which he hasn’t been to yet. Otherwise, as Mehrotra says, “I’ve tried most of the restaurants, but if there is anything new I would love to try that.”So what prompted Mehrotra to finally come down to the city to cook for eager Mumbaikars?“Bombay is always close to my heart because I started my career in Bombay. I have studied in Bombay. So I always wanted to do something [here].” Mehrotra started his career working under chef Ananda Solomon, at the Vivanta by Taj - President in Cuffe Parade. He says he’s visited the city for private events in the past, but this is the first time that he’s cooking for the general public. Doing an event in the city is overdue for him because, as he says, “We have a lot of guests who come from Bombay to Delhi and a lot of people come especially to Delhi to try Indian Accent.” This devotion is not new, with most people within the Mumbai food industry making it a point to eat at Indian Accent at the slightest opportunity. Le15 owner Pooja Dhingra, for example, eats there every time she visits Delhi. Others come back full of praise for the inventive food served over the course of the meal. The inspiration for his cooking comes from “my childhood, my travels, my times in different places”. After all, where else would one see a wasabi and cucumber raita, or burrata papdi chaat with tamatar chutney on the menu of a restaurant that has made its name serving contemporary Indian food?The cuisine at Indian Accent is the food that Mehrotra has always wanted to cook. And he says that its authenticity is whey it has won accolades. On the menuWhat can Mumbai diners can expect from these meals?“A few signature dishes from Indian Accent will definitely be there. Like our pork ribs, duck khurchan cornettos, and our Kashmiri morels.” But there are also going to be some new additions that haven’t made it to Indian Accent’s menu as yet. Is there’s anything unique to the city that is on the Magazine Street menu?“Seafood, definitely. Fish and all will use from Bombay only.”For Mumbaikars who haven’t had a chance to try the cuisine that’s taken Mehrotra from New Delhi to New York, now is your chance.The author is a freelance writer.To make a reservation for the Manish Mehrotra meals at Magazine Street Kitchen, see insider.in. 