http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Garbage-makes-them-weary/article14376519.ece

CHENNAI: The only thing that mars the peaceful residential area of Ashok Nagar is the garbage. Overflowing bins either marks every street corner or garbage is found piled up on the roadsides.According to V. Ravichandran, founder-chairman, Citizens Guardians, an organisation that works for public and social causes, residents have to deal with this vexing issue on a daily basis. “Garbage in this ward is cleared by a private operator. The problem is, there are not enough bins on the streets — and this leads to overflowing bins. In some roads with no bins, residents are left with no option but to simply dump the garbage at a spot. When the conservancy operators come to remove the garbage, the trash is often on these streets is left uncleared,” he said. The 41st street, 54th Street, 56th Street and 7th Avenue all had piles of garbage, he added.Another issue that residents encountered was the mixing of drinking water with sewage, said M. Amburose, a resident of 12th Street. “For around three years now, we have suffered through this. I have filed numerous complaints online with the Metrowater. But everytime, the officials come and resolve the issue, it erupts again soon after the first rain. There needs to be a permanent solution — and the pipes need to be changed,” he said.Jeyyapriya Dhevi, who runs a play school, also said that this issue of contaminated drinking water was also prevalent in the 47th, 48th and 54th Streets. According to Ms. Dhevi, vehicles that queue up for registrations at the RTO at the 11th Avenue, create traffic problems for motorists using the road . “On rainy days, it gets worse, as with just an hour of rain, the street becomes waterlogged. Parents and students are unable to see potholes on the road and often fall as a result. Residents living here are weary and fearful of another repeat of the December 2015 floods,” she said.The 11th Avenue and 7th Avenue needs speedbreakers, said Mr. Ravichandran. He said that the ward had suffered during the floods, as water level rose up to seven feet. “Around 3,000 families suffered damages and did not receive the compensation,” he said.AIADMK councillor A. Alamelu admitted that garbage issue was a major problem. She said that there were not enough sanitary workers. “We need around 100 workers but there are only around 70.” On the issue of waterlogged and bad roads, she said there were only 12 roads that needed re-laying and that work was on to de-silt and link all stormwater drains in the ward. She also elaborated that LED lights were being installed on all streets and that the Corporation High School building had been painted. An Amma drinking water scheme unit too, had been set up, and would soon be opened she said. She also said she was working with Metrowater and the traffic police to resolve the sewage and parking issues. 