http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Green-activists-see-red-over-TenderSURE-road-design/article14554601.ece

 Does the dream of better footpaths have to come at the cost of trees? The Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) engineers had suggested cutting 48 trees on the verdent Nrupatunga Road for the TenderSURE project. But, an inspection by tree officers has shown that the cutting of 27 trees is unnecessary. “The tenders have been called and work has started…there is pressure to clear the project now. There is little we could do but minimise the loss of tree cover,” a source told The Hindu. However, green activists are livid after scores of trees in Jayanagar and Nrupatunga Road were put on the chopping block to make way for TenderSURE footpaths. Already, eight trees have been cut in Jayanagar while four others toppled on their own due to the weakening of the roots while constructing the footpath. The Forum for Urban Commons and Governance has petitioned the BBMP against the project and plans to take up the matter with the Lokayukta and the National Green Tribunal. “The cutting of trees is a violation of the promises given when this project was announced. It also reflects a faulty design where trees have to make way for ducts. The end result is a heavily concrete footpath, which will not allow for planting more trees,” said Kshitij Urs, co-convenor of the Forum.Vinay Srinivas of Hasiu Usiru said, “The project is opaque and the public is not informed of the trees that will be cut. Auctioning of the trees happens under a lot of secrecy.”BBMP chief engineer (road infrastructure) S. Somashekhar sprung to the defence of the project. “Half the trees in Jayanagar are sick. AS for the others, their roots had spread all underneath the footpath. We could not lay concrete pipes without cutting these roots,” he said. He said compensatory planting would be done and was incorporated in the design of the footpaths. “There is enough scope for water percolation in the design to ensure that these planted trees are healthy,” he said. 