http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/span-classng_TypographyTagHere-all%E2%80%99s-not-wellspan/article14435946.ece

During the 1980s, three public wells served as the main source of drinking water for residents of Mogappair, when the neighbourhood was slowly transforming from a farming area into a residential locality.Of the three 20-feet-deep wells, two were demolished a few years ago to make way for the new Chennai Metrowater offices in the neighbourhood. The third well remains and it located opposite the bus terminus in Mogappair East. Thanks to poor maintenance by Chennai Metrowater (which owns the land and the public well), this well is now an eyesore.“Despite being turned into a dumping ground, the well still has water and more importantly, helps recharge the groundwater table in the neighbourhood during monsoon. If Chennai Metrowater maintained the well better, it would serve the neighbourhood for many more years,” said S. Sabasivam, president, Tenth Block Residents Welfare Association.The three wells had been constructed by Chennai Metrowater in the early 1980s to supply water for the construction of housing quarters by Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) for the staff of LIC and a few other government agencies. Residents, who migrated to the neighbourhood from elsewhere in the city, took water from the wells for domestic purposes. Farmers in the vicinity too irrigated their paddy fields with water drawn from these wells in its early years.“Until a few years ago, this well met the water needs of residents. And then, with slow accumulation of garbage, the facility began to be seen as a makeshift dumping ground,” said Venketaramani, a long-time resident of Mogappair.Due to neglect, the well, which still stores a good quantity of water, is covered with sheets of plastic bags and other wastes. The well is nothing but an open and easy dump ground for residents and passers-by. It also serves as a den for anti-socials and miscreants, residents say. Residents want the Chennai Metrowater along with civic officials of the Zone – VII (Ambattur) of Chennai Corporation to rejuvenate the public well at the earliest, in the interest of the neighbourhood.“Efforts will be taken to restore the public well soon,” said a Metrowater official. 