http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/High-value-transactions-come-under-the-scanner/article14441505.ece

 High-value transactions in 17 district cooperative banks, including six in Bengaluru, which have not been reported to the Income Tax Department, are now under the scanner as 6,000 notices are being readied to be issued to individuals and institutions.“The department is aware of a huge amount of money that is in the form of deposits in these cooperative banks. In some cases, deposits range between Rs. 50 crore and Rs. 80 crore held by individuals, which have not been reported,” sources in the IT Department said. “Notices will be issued over the next two to three days,” sources said, adding that there are more than 150 cooperative banks operating in the State.Sources said the huge deposits have raised “suspicion at this point of time”. On the reasons for finding this money lying in these banks, sources said, “Non-reporting to the authorities, secrecy maintained about accounts, and confidence in those managing the banks have promoted such transactions. Most of these banks are also controlled by closely held families that do not adhere to regulations.”What has also come to the aid of the department is the fact that the tax on interest accrued from deposits in cooperative banks can now be deducted at source. “Earlier, TDS was not applicable on deposits made by members.”The trend of underreporting or non-reporting in cooperative banks has been seen only in Karnataka and Maharashtra, and these banks are mostly connected to areas that cultivate sugarcane, tobacco and other cash crops, another source said.Meanwhile, the department has also issued 56,135 notices for 70,000 transactions in the State where income tax had not been paid. This is in addition to the two lakh notices (of seven lakh nationally) that it issued earlier for multiple high-value transactions without PAN, including deposits in banks. Sources conceded that though there was response to the notices sent earlier, they are expecting a significant response in the last fortnight of September. While instances of people owning up but seeking time has been reported, Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax Nutan Wodeyar clarified that “time” cannot be more than September 30 when the four-month Income Declaration Scheme Window will end.