http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/In-setback-to-Akhilesh-uncle-Shivpal-regains-portfolios/article14444465.ece

 A day after the crisis in the ruling Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh escalated with the resignation of senior leader Shivpal Yadav, his brother and party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav stepped in to steady the boat on Friday.By the end of the day, it appeared Mr. Mulayam Singh had been successful in enforcing a truce between his warring family members, bringing an end to a long-drawn power and ego struggle that threatened to derail the party’s campaign ahead of next year’s Assembly polls.Though nothing is on paper yet, Mr. Shivpal Yadav looks set to get back the ministries he lost, including that of the prestigious Public Works Department, while retaining the post of State party president.His resignation letters were also rejected by Mr. Mulayam Singh and Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav.Mr. Akhilesh Yadav, whose authority appears to have been diluted in the entire episode as he was not only forced to revoke his decisions but also lost the post of State president, might get a bigger say in candidate selection for the 2017 elections as a trade off.SP sources, however, said the younger Mr Yadav had emerged unscathed from the turmoil as he had shown that he would not take his uncle’s power play lying down. He had virtually sacked his uncle on Tuesday as the power struggle intensified.Significantly, controversial mining minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati, who was sacked on Monday and enjoys little media sympathy for his record, will also be re-inducted into the State cabinet, Mr. Mulayam Singh confirmed during an address at the party headquarters in Lucknow in a bid to quell tension and restore confidence in the party.The decision might yet bring awkward moments for the Chief Minister, as a controversial figure, Mr. Prajapati has been mired in allegations of corruption, disproportionate assets and illegal mining. A CBI probe is on into illegal mining.After days of power struggle and verbal attacks, which saw the sacking of the State’s topmost bureaucrat, two ministers, and the downsizing of and later resignation of Mr Singh’s brother, Shivpal, an agreement is expected to be announced on Saturday, even as opposition parties continued to call the episode a staged drama.‘No rift in party’Addressing supporters here amid the escalation of the factional feud, Mr Singh on Friday morning said as long as he was alive, there “will be no division” in the SP, a contrasting stand from last month when he had said that if his brother quit, the party would split. This also showed the supremo stepping in to take control as things began to fall apart.The SP supremo played down the internal tussles, saying there was “no rift of any kind” in the party. He expressed confidence that his son Akhilesh would not defy him and that looking at elections, the party leaders and workers would work together.“We have a big family, differences may occur. Every father and son face issues...but there is no rift whatsoever in the party between anybody,” Mr Singh insisted, even as he announced that the punitive action taken against Mr. Prajapati would be quashed. Mr. Prajapati, who flanked Mr. Singh, reacted with a grin.While Mr. Shivpal Yadav did not speak to the media after meeting Mr Singh, saying all would be announced by ‘Netaji’ as Mr Mulayam Singh is known in the party, Mr. Akhilesh Yadav publicly announced that he would return the portfolios snatched from his uncle, while also welcoming back the sacked Mining Minister.“I will honour the word of the party president and will do everything to make my father happy,” he said.Earlier in the day, as tensions flared, Shivpal Yadav reposed all faith in his elder brother. “Netaji ka sandesh hamare liye aadesh hai (Mulayam’s message is my command),” he said.Interestingly, while Shivpal spoke, he was flanked by none other than Mr. Prajapati, who is a bone of contention between the minister and the CM.Mr. Prajapati enjoys the patronage of the supremo and is said to have deeper links in the family, observers feel.Though Mr. Mulayam Singh has prevented further chaos in the party, he may have undermined the image of his son as the party heads to polls where the younger Yadav will be the face of the party.