http://www.thehindu.com/business/India-Cements-set-on-cost-debt-cutting-exercise/article14410537.ece

 The India Cements Ltd. has embarked on a two-pronged initiative to stay ‘healthy and all-time fit’.The exercise will largely focus on delivering value for all the stakeholders in the company, according to N.Srinivasan, Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of India Cements.He said that it was imperative to be cost-competitive in the emerging dynamic environment. Also, it was essential to keep a watch on the debt level, he added.“We want the debt level to be substantially cut down,’’ Mr. Srinivasan said. This was necessary to help the company handle any downturn better, he added. “The pressure of debt should not be there on us,’’ he said.He indicated that efforts were also on to take a closer look at the cost structure. The objective was to ensure that the company was competitively positioned in the marketplace. “We should strive to be a low-cost producer to have command over the competition,’’ he said.Queried if he was focusing lot more on India Cements after moving out of the BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India), he said, “I am always conscious that in any public body, your time is finite.’’ He asserted that “I have moved on and happy.’’To a question, he asserted that India Cements had been patronising the game of cricket for many years now. “We have given them (players) jobs, not contracts,’’ he said. As the head of TNCA (Tamil Nadu Cricket Association) he said he was pleased to see the way the TNPL (Tamil Nadu Premier League) had evolved thus far in its maiden season. Incidentally, India Cements is the title sport for the TNPL.Mr. Srinivasan recently addressed a gathering of executives from both the corporate office and plants, and gave an elaborate run-down on the future growth direction for the company, while emphasising the company’s focus on cost-control and operational efficiency.Last month, he had also met with more than 30 fund managers and key investors and briefed them on the growth initiatives of the company.