http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/It%E2%80%99s-veggie-bonanza-for-customers-at-Central-prison-in-capital/article14636332.ece

: Sunitha, a domestic help, had a bagful of vegetables in both hands. This was the first time that she had come to the Central Prison at Poojappura to buy vegetables grown by the prisoners here. “The lady of the house I work at told me about the vegetables sold here. I have bought amaranthus, Indian cucumber, snake gourd, long beans, and bananas.”A steady stream of people reached the prison on Monday morning to buy vegetables farmed by the prisoners here.State Police Chief Loknath Behera inaugurated the sale of the organic vegetables and other products made by prisoners of the Central Prison, Nettukaltheri open prison, Thiruvananthapuram open prison for women, and women’s prison at Attakulangara. He said organic farming at the prison would be expanded through intensive and extensive cultivation involving more prisoners, and funds from institutions, if any, would be used for the purpose.As many as 30 different types of vegetables were available for sale. These included plantain stem and flowers, bananas, tomato, lady’s finger, long beans, and bitter gourd, besides plantain leaf needed for a traditional sadya.Rajesh M.K, a businessman who was buying vegetables needed for an engagement, said he regularly purchased vegetables grown at the prison. “Vegetables are regularly sold outside the prison, not just during Onam. These are cultivated by the prisoners and are organic.” Besides vegetables, handicrafts made by prisoners at the Nettukaltheri open prison such as houseboats, glass boats, ‘vaalkannadi,’ wall hangings, and sculptures were available.Besides some veggies, the women’s open jail at Poojapppura had for sale four types of pickles, kesari , achappam , neyyappam , unniappam , banana chips, sarkara varatti , all made by the 11 prisoners with the help of the staff. Snacks made by the idli-making unit at the women’s prison at Attakulangara were also available. These included ari unda , uniappam , chammanthi podi , gooseberry pickle, kutti appam , and banana chips. Nighties, and Kerala saris, printed by the women, were also available for sale under the Threads of Freedom line of products manufactured at the prisons.B. Pradeep, DIG, Prisons, said the sale had netted nearly Rs.90,000. “Besides involving the prisoners in the Onam celebrations, the various activities at the jail were aimed at equipping them to earn a living when they leave here, and become part of mainstream society. This increases their confidence, and instils a positive attitude in them.”