http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/Kumarakom-to-get-a-facelift/article14596302.ece

Kumarakom will get a facelift before the onset of the coming tourism season. A proposal to this effect was made at a meeting of tourism industry stakeholders on Saturday. According to K. Suresh Kurup, MLA, making Vembanad Lake free of waste will be given top priority.“That would, to a large extent, be a solution to the main issues facing the region,” he said. “Plastic waste poses the biggest challenge. Machinery to convert plastic waste into pellet form should be set up. It is neither expensive nor does it take up too much space, and it is a project that can be easily undertaken by the panchayat.”Committees have been formed to look into various issues such as basic infrastructural maintenance, lake and canal conservation, waste management, repairs to pedestrian walkways, and practising the Responsible Tourism initiative. These committees will submit reports by September 3.StrategiesThe recommendations include both short-term and long-term strategies to be followed to ensure sustainable tourism packages. “On the basis of this report, further action will be undertaken,” said U.V. Jose, Director, Tourism. “By November 1, Kumarakom, Arpookara and Aymanam panchayats, which come under the title of the Kumarakom destination, will be spruced up to receive visitors.”Responsible TourismThe internationally appreciated Responsible Tourism initiative would be a prime focus with particular attention given to waste management and canal conservation, said Mr. Jose. “Several international agencies have expressed interest in making studies on the initiative and it is our responsibility to make sure that it continues to be an energetic project. Responsible tourism is the sustainable way forward for the industry.”The industry representatives raised local issues which demanded immediate attention, such as electricity distribution and the protection of canals. “The panchayat’s main limitation is the lack of funds,” said panchayat president A.P. Salimon. “Several waste management projects are being undertaken with the participation of agencies, but more projects need to be taken up in partnership with the tourism sector.” Also present, at the meeting were KTDC MD D. Balamurali, Kumarakom panchayat vice president Sindhu Ravikumar, and panchayat members.