http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/letters/Letters-to-the-Editor/article14373994.ece

Trimming pendencyLaw Commission of India Chairman and former Supreme Court judge Justice Balbir Singh Chauhan is right in saying that the judicial workload has increased because of greater awareness among the public and the role of the RTI (“Approved strength of judges enough to end backlog: Law panel head”, Sept.14). Even the Prime Minister has acknowledged the relevance of technology and transparency in tackling corruption. Apart from having “working judges”, rather than physical bench strength, government services must be gradually made online. Gudipati Anirudh,SecunderabadWe certainly don’t need strength in numbers. Instead, we need to upgrade existing systems and revisit archaic laws. Why do courts enjoy vacations like academic institutions when we are groaning under the weight of a backlog of cases? Adjournments should be restricted to the bare minimum as there are numerous instances where justice has been awarded posthumously. Special and family courts should act fast. There is also an urgent need to stop burdening the Supreme Court with routine appeals. We need more counsellors/arbitrators to dissuade people from resorting to litigation and try and arrive at a compromise.Prem K. Menon,MumbaiIn S.P. Gupta vs Union of India, 1981, the Supreme Court declared that the Constitution is a charter of a social revolution. If ever a social revolution is to occur, the judiciary has to be at its vanguard. Considering that there are on average 2,500 cases allotted to a single judge per year, the argument that judges are “not working” is misplaced. The real problem lies in tackling the backlog of cases. The approved strength will not be sufficient in taking care of this load.Jagmal Singh Achara,Mandawa, RajasthanCalm after crackdownGiven the scale of the violence and arson in Karnataka, the needle of suspicion points to the involvement of politicians in the State (”Bengaluru quiet after crackdown”, Sept.14). However, it is also to be fairly conceded that the imbalance in the sharing of Cauvery water, which is detrimental to the interests of Karnataka, is at the root of the conflict. Both Tamil Nadu and Karnataka need to be pragmatic and work out a practical and equitable formula instead of sticking to an archaic accord which does not factor in climate change. S. Srinivasan,ChennaiI belong to Kodagu, or Coorg, the source of the Cauvery. To us the river is a mother, a life-giver and a protector. I pose this question to those who are aggressively propagating the slogan “Cauvery Nammadu”: Where were you when locals in Kodagu protested against the large-scale felling of trees in the region in 2013? — The Hindu, “Work on power line begins in Kodagu amid people’s concerns”, Nov.12, 2013). Some might say that this is the price one pays for development. But the irreparable damage caused to green cover and disturbance to wildlife has, not surprisingly, led to news of drought in Kodagu.  It is shocking that in just two years, an area that in its history had never heard of a drought, is now staring at a harsh year ahead. Acute water shortage in this catchment area is only going to get worse because of the systematic stripping of the Western Ghats. Burning buses and indulging in arson are never going to solve the real issue. The media should highlight these issues in such a way that the so-called “owners of the Cauvery” know that you reap what you sow.Renuka Devayya,BengaluruIn the name of the Cauvery, the violence unleashed in Karnataka should make us bow our heads in shame. The festering issue around an intermittent river such as the Cauvery shows that the Centre should think in terms of the nationalisation of major rivers and dams. With climate change affecting the monsoon, the government needs to think ahead and push States to have separate projects for drinking and agricultural purposes. Maheshkumar T.,Mulanur, Tamil NaduIn its 1931 judgment on the Delaware river dispute between the State of New Jersey and the State of New York, the Supreme Court of the United States observed: “[A] river is more than an amenity, it is a treasure. It offers a necessity of life that must be rationed among those who have power over it.” This was precisely the essence of the Supreme Court of India’s direction to the Karnataka government to release 15,000 cusecs of water per day to Tamil Nadu till September 20. However, the arson and rioting that followed has brought to light the short-sightedness of policymakers in bringing the adjudication and arbitration efforts to fruition. Instead, it has reiterated the need for a permanent and dynamic riparian dispute resolution mechanism in the country (Editorial – “Sharing without caring”, Sept.14). While the Union government should be applauded for making efforts to sort out the problem between principal players through the institutional mechanism of the Cauvery River Authority, it cannot escape the accusation of allowing the dispute to go unchecked, leading to undesirable and dangerous ramifications. This is particularly true after its failure to avoid a face-off between Punjab and Haryana over the construction of the Sutlej-Yamuna link canal. ‘The Cauvery Tribunal’s 2007 award should be revisited to recalibrate the share of each riparian State based on a rainfall-linked formula.Shreyans Jain,New DelhiDepiction of Onam The national party, the BJP, appears to be at it again (“Shah triggers row on Onam eve with Vamana tweet”, Sept.14). Kerala is one State where people of all communities and religious beliefs live in complete harmony. Onam is a secular festival with even churches in the State celebrating it with fervour and gaiety. It is a known fact that in spite of a sizeable presence of the RSS in Kerala, the BJP has been unable to convert this into votes. The country has witnessed unruly incidents and disturbances caused by the machinations of blinkered leaders. One hopes that responsible citizens stand up against such mischievous attempts to destabilise a peaceful State especially as Kerala has always been a role model of communal harmony and peaceful coexistence. Varghese George,Secunderabad