http://www.thehindu.com/sport/tennis/Lots-to-learn-and-little-to-lose-against-Spain-says-Paes/article14359925.ece

 Leander Paes is an evergreen hero, especially in his favourite theatre of the Davis Cup where he has had wins overcoming the odds against some of the best in business.It may not be easy for Paes’s younger team-mates to emulate his feats of the past when they take on Spain in the World Group play-off match this weekend. However, the 43-year-old was as energetic and enthusiastic as ever at the training session, saying the boys had nothing to lose and everything to gain from the experience.“Beyond a point, winning and losing don’t matter. It is all about how much you care to absorb from playing against the legends, the marathon men. Have fun, enjoy and keep improving,” said Paes.“You have nothing to lose. You have done a fantastic job to take the team this far. We are proud of you. Work on a few things and test your game against the best in the world. [It is all about] what you can learn and how much can you absorb from the experience.”Paes acknowledged the hard work that had gone into India emerging as one of the top Asian teams, and added that it was important to sustain the standard.Saying that it was a smart decision to have scheduled play for the evenings, Paes pointed out that it would benefit the home team too, especially considering the fact that three of the four singles players in the match against Korea — which was played on grass and during the day at Chandigarh — had struggled physically.He added that it would not matter much to the battle-hardened Spaniards when or where they play.“The Spanish team is one of the most professional in the world,” Paes said. “They fight so hard.” “I can’t say enough of the respect I have for the team, Rafa (Nadal) in particular... he is such a great ambassador for the game. David Ferrer, Feliciano Lopez, my buddy Marc Lopez — who at last won a Grand Slam title (at Roland Garros with Feliciano Lopez) and then the Olympic gold with Rafa,” said Paes, and recalled the experience of playing doubles with Nadal, at the Paris Masters last year.Praising Saketh Myneni for his recent progress, Paes said the World No.119 had showed a lot of character in two five-setters in recent weeks, first the singles win against the Koreans and then the defeat in the opening round at the US Open.He called the tie a “great showcase of tennis in India,” and said it would be a nice opportunity for youngsters who love the game, and sports in general, to enjoy the matches and cheer the home team.Talking of his own role in the team, Paes said he would happy to share his knowledge if the players were keen to learn.Recalling that he had come through the grind, Paes said his progress was directly related to his being a keen student of the game, observing and learning from others.He also declared that it would require good, strong young players to push him out of the Indian team.“I am here to push them like hell in practice,” Paes said.He said he would look to motivate and guide the young team, through the Davis Cup learning curve.Though he is set to play the doubles rubber with Saketh Myneni after Rohan Bopanna’s withdrawal from the match, Paes said that he was prepared to play his best in any company.