http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/Medical-aspirants-at-a-disadvantage/article14450420.ece

 Aspirants who are yet to get seats in medical and dental colleges through the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) scores have already missed classes. Even though the second round of NEET counselling is yet to begin, most medical and dental colleges have already commenced the academic year. NEET students will have to play catch-up.One student, who obtained a seat through NEET, said he was informed not to miss many classes as the college had commenced in the second week of September. Students have to ensure that they have at least 80 per cent attendance to sit for the exams, and cannot afford to play truant or miss classes once they join.Many are worried about missing out on study material, and said they will have a tough time catching up on portions as significant chunks of the syllabus had already been covered. Some colleges are contemplating conducting extra classes, if the professors oblige. With NEET being introduced at the last minute, several students were put to hardship and now it has derailed the academic calender for 2016-17. Many government medical colleges that had commenced classes on August 1, suspended classes for two weeks in August and began classes only in September.The Medical Council of India in August had also amended the calendar of events and said that colleges could commence on September 3. “Midway in August, we were given a break and asked to come back only in September as the MCI had changed the calendar of events,” said a first-year medical student of Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences.M.R. Jayaram, Karnataka Professional Colleges Foundation, said the foundation had asked all member colleges to start classes only in September-end in the interest of students who would join late. “Most government colleges had started admissions and had suspended colleges to wait for candidates who would obtain a seat through their NEET rankings. However, majority of the private medical colleges are starting admissions only later this month,” he said.