http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/More-weavers-under-Mudra-Yojana/article14375629.ece

 The Telangana government has asked the officials of Handloom and Textiles Department to hold district-level meetings to ensure that more number of weavers were covered under the Mudra Yojana.It’s a Central government scheme for the development and refinancing of micro units.Principal Secretary, Industries, Arvind Kumar, in a meeting with the department officials, Telangana State Cooperatives and Punjab National Bank officials, reviewed the status of loans being availed by the weavers under the Mudra Yojana here on Wednesday. The government was paying special attention to skill upgradation of weavers, ensuring availability of good quality raw material and providing better access to credit for good handloom products.Rajiv Puri, Deputy General Manager of PNB, said the bank would finance the weavers directly based on their track record. He also requested that all the payments should be routed through the bank account opened for the purpose and a MoU be entered into between Telangana State Handloom Weavers’ Cooperative Society, Directorate of Handlooms and Textiles and Bank to this effect. The members not covered under the cooperative societies would also be financed on case-to-case basis, he added.Mr. Arvind Kumar later in a meeting with the officials of Life Insurance Corporation reviewed the implementation of Mahatma Gandhi Bunker Bima Yojana in the State and said a massive programme should be taken up in October to ensure that all the eligible weavers were covered under the scheme. All the eligible weavers who were left out should approach the district handloom officials immediately and get themselves enrolled under the scheme.The LIC officials said that any weaver who was earning at least 50 per cent of his income from handloom weaving was eligible under the scheme. Also, weavers who were in the cooperative fold and outside it were also eligible for Bima Yojana. Of the total premium of Rs. 470, the contribution by the Union Government would be Rs. 290, LIC contribution Rs.100 and that of weaver Rs. 80.