http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/No-CCTV-in-area-where-Ramkumar-%E2%80%98bit-live-wire%E2%80%99/article14538883.ece

: A day after officials at the Puzhal Central Prison claimed that P. Ramkumar (24), the lone suspect in the Infosys techie Swathi murder case, committed suicide by “biting a live electric wire”, a top prison officer said there was no camera footage of the incident. Though the prison campus is covered by Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) network, the place where Ramkumar reportedly self-electrocuted himself was not under camera surveillance.According to the officer, Ramkumar was among six inmates who were lodged in the dispensary ward of the high security block and three warders took turns in eight-hour shifts each to monitor the movements of the prisoners. Strangely, none of the other inmates noticed Ramkumar pull out the wire and the warder was missing from the scene during those crucial moments.The officer claimed that prima facie it appeared that Ramkumar pulled out live wire from a fan regulator switchboard and “wound the wire on his body before biting into the cable.”“Some prisoners who were in the vicinity rushed to the scene on hearing an unusual noise but did not attempt to touch Ramkumar who was suffering an electric shock. When attempts to relieve him from the live wire failed, a warder who rushed to the scene switched off power supply. He was taken alive to the prison hospital…First-aid was rendered in about 15 minutes from the time of shock,” a senior prison officer told The Hindu on Monday.The incident occurred around 4.30 p.m. barely an hour-and-a-half before the inmates are locked up till the next morning. The officer was not sure whether Earth Leakage Circuit Breaker (ELCB) that would automatically disconnect power supply in the event of a leak or shock was installed on the prison campus. Close watchHe said the dispensary area in Puzhal Prison-II was not covered by CCTV network. The activities of Ramkumar were normal during the day. “Since he attempted suicide on an earlier occasion, we followed the prescribed protocol in the case of Ramkumar. At least three warders took turns to keep a close watch on him. On Sunday evening, the prisoner sprung a surprise by suddenly pulling out live wires.”Asked why Ramkumar was shifted to the Government Royapettah Hospital, which is a good over one-hour drive from Puzhal in peak hour traffic instead of any other hospital nearby, the official said the decision was taken by the prison doctor who accompanied the inmate in the ambulance.Parrying questions on the possibility of dereliction of duty on the part of prison staff in allowing Ramkumar access live wire or in rescuing him on time, the official who preferred not to be quoted said the magisterial inquiry would cover such aspects and action would be taken if any lapses came to light.The guidelines issued by the National Human Rights Commission on ‘Prevention of Suicide in Prison’ had recommended basic training in medical emergency response to all jail staff “to respond and provide immediate medical first-aid like cardio-pulmonary resuscitation in cases of suicide attempts and other such emergencies till professional help is sought.