http://www.thehindu.com/sci-tech/technology/gadgets/Now-control-electrical-appliances-using-smartphone/article14646359.ece

 Imagine the comfort of switching on/off your air conditioner, television, geyser or any other electrical appliance in your vicinity, and dimming the lights in your conference hall to suit your presentation, all with a gentle swipe of your smartphone! Chennai-based Tommaso Technologies Pvt. Ltd. has made this a reality with its fully-customised automation and energy-saving solution. The device, which has been named as ‘inn S.E.T.’, can regulate the usage of various appliances at one go and directly contribute to reduced electricity usage, which, in other words, means lower power bills. The company announced the product's nationwide launch in Tirupati recently.Dubbing it a ‘next generation product’, Tommaso Technologies Managing Director Hari Ramakrishnan said the product would enable nearly 30 per cent of power saving in hotels and major commercial establishments. Meter to view actual savings“The product will have an on-board power meter which helps us view the actual savings and not rough estimates. We will be launching the products for home automation sector in two to three months,” he added. The product is available in a highly elastic price band of Rs.3,500 to Rs1,50,000 to suit the small as well as the large scale commercial outlets, with wired as well as wireless options. One can avail motion sensors, thermostats, controllers, door sensors and touch panels from the range of products available. “When implemented in a hotel, all that a guest occupying a room has to do is to log on to the portal, view the list of controllable appliances installed and just turn them on or off with a swipe. It can also be replicated to the systems at home,” he said. PACE Hotels CEO Kommu Bhaskar, the first customer for the product, announced the successful functioning of the product installed on the entire fourth floor and a couple of banquet halls at Hotel PLR Grand in Tirupati. Tommaso has said the product would be launched in metro cities of Chennai and Bengaluru soon.