http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Out-of-the-darkness-finally/article14436092.ece

Plunged in darkness for years, the three-km stretch between Ambattur Industrial Estate bus terminus junction and the Rail Over Bridge (ROB) on Chennai–Tiruvallur High (CTH) Road, is finally seeing a ray of hope, literally, in the form of street lights along its new median, installed a week ago.With this development, motorists don’t have to travel on the neatly-laid bitumen road with just the headlight to guide them, anymore. Pedestrains had not been taking the stretch between these points, as a series of chain-snatching incidents had been reported from there. Instead, they had been taking a much longer route via Retteri and Padi. In fact, many workers from the industrial units of Ambattur would use torchlights to guide them to the bus terminus at Ambattur Industrial Estate. That experience is now a thing of the past. Fording several hurdles, which included fund crunch and Election Code of Conduct, the civic officials of Zone VII (Ambattur) of Greater Chennai Corporation have managed to bring illumination to the darkest spots on CTH Road, which is a State highway. “Finally, we can take a long safe walk along the stretch under the bright LED lights. Thanks to all, including the Corporation,” said T. Gunaseelan, a long-time resident of Ambattur. Under the Corporation’s general funds and a special grant for the purpose, 111 LED lights were sanctioned for providing illumination on the stretch. Each pole has two lamps, with each bulb having a capacity of 165 volts. Also, the new LED lights are erected at a height of eight metres to ensure better illumination on a wider area of the stretch.The project, civic officials said, was approved prior to the enforcement of Code of Conduct by the Election Commission for the 2016 elections. Civic officials said that the constant traffic movement on CTH Road had slowed down the work.Every day, on an average, around two lakh vehicles use the stretch to reach the city, mainly the Chennai port via the Poonamallee High (PH) Road, and the Grand Northern Trunk (GNT) Road, a national highway. Most of the vehicles are goods-laden lorries from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and the industrial units of Sriperambadur, Tiruvallur, Tirutani and Arakkonam.