http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/PDP-leader-Tariq-Hameed-Karra-quits-party/article14395034.ece

Founding PDP leader and Srinagar Lok Sabha MP Tariq Hameed Karra resigned from the party as well as Parliament on Thursday to protest against “brutal policies” of the BJP-led government at the Centre and Jammu and Kashmir government’s complete surrender before it.“I have decided to disassociate myself from the primary membership of the PDP and from the membership of the Parliament to which I was elected from the Srinagar Parliamentary constituency in 2014 on PDP ticket,” Mr. Karra told reporters at his residence in Srinagar.Mr. Karra alleged that the “unabated genocide” Central and State governments, their continued denial of the dangerous ground realities, insensitive and adhoc approach towards the Kashmir issue and the blatant policy of dealing with Kashmiris by way of “oppressive, repressive and suppressive measures” were the other reasons for his resignation.“My heart is bleeding and my soul is crying for the people of my homeland. My conscience cannot take it any longer,” Mr. Karra said.The Lok Sabha member from Sringar said the PDP was floated in 1999 to safeguard lives, property, honour, dignity, self respect and political aspirations of the people. “But today, in the present tragic circumstances, (PDP) made a U-turn and treated its subjects much worst than the Nazi forces. I feel still continuing with them would be equally subscribing to the administratively inhuman and politically unethical blunders,” he said. The 61-year-old leader said the PDP was formed to act as buffer between the Centre and State. “The launch of this new political dispensation was on the premise as facilitators rather than collaborators or obstructionists for the permanent, peaceful and everlasting resolution of Kashmir issue.” “I was forcefully consistent on it so that PDP buffer character would be saved which had blood and sweat of thousands of dedicated and selfless workers in it,” Mr. Karra said defending his decision to resign more than two months of unrest, which nearly claimed scores of lives and left thousand others injured.Mr. Karra is the first Lok Sabha member from Jammu and Kashmir to have resigned from the Parliament.He said he is leaving it to the conscience of all other members of Parliament, MLAs and MLCs from his party to decide whether they would like to side with their helpless people or allow the bloodshed “perpetuated by RSS-driven BJP and facilitated by the PDP”. Lashing out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Karra said his “imperialistic methods” have intensified the Kashmir unrest and to only blame Pakistan for the current situation is a self-defeating approach.“His hand twisting attitude and imperialistic methods towards Kashmir issue and issues of Kashmir added fuel to the fire.“He lulls into a make-believe world that by blaming only Pakistan he has succeeded in identifying the real cause (the Kashmir problem). He firmly believes that minus Pakistan there would be no Jammu and Kashmir problem. To my understanding it is self defeating and not a smart move even in favour of India.” Mr. Karra alleged that the Prime Minister has pushed the country towards Hinduisation and turned “Incredible India into Intolerant India” “The Prime Minister has pushed the country towards Hinduisation and by doing so undermined Indian nationalism which has liberal space and place for diversity built into it.“Though he couldn’t convert his jingoistic promises made during general elections even to the people of Ladakh and Jammu into reality, one must give devil his due for converting highly publicised Incredible India into Intolerant India.” He claimed his foresight about the RSS and the BJP making inroads and committing “religious aggression” in Kashmir has been vindicated after the State government imposed curfew and locked down major mosques and shrines in the Valley “The Grand mosque (Jamia Masjid) of Srinagar was closed and people were not allowed to offer Eid prayers. The last time the grand mosque was closed was in 1819,” he rued. 