http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Pedalling-his-way-to-create-awareness-for-cycle-tracks/article14639735.ece

 It was a ride to create awareness of the need for cycle track on roads. On Wednesday evening, C.D. Francis, lineman with the Renewable Energy and Energy Savings wing of the Kerala State Electricity Board at Pattom here, cycled into the city from Thrissur, the cultural capital of the State. Francis, popularly known as Cycle Francis, had started his solo ride early Tuesday morning with the goal of creating awareness of cycling tracks as a way of conserving nature and energy and for better health. It was also a campaign to highlight the World Car-Free Day observance on Thursday. Francis rues that there are cycle tracks in places such as Bengaluru, Noida in Uttar Pradesh, and in Tamil Nadu, but none here in the State. “At least in future when more roads are developed, provision should be made for cycle tracks.”He had undertaken a solo ride from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram in 2010 too. But the road conditions were different then, he points out. Highlighting the importance of sharing, Francis says after giving space to vehicles on roads, some should be set aside for cyclists too. Francis had taken to cycling as a form of therapy after falling from a lamp post and sustaining spinal injury in 2004. Unable to cycle even 2 km, he was pedalling over 50 km within a year. Inspired by a youth from France who was cycling to spread the message of eye donation, Francis too put up a message of ‘Save energy’ on his bicycle. “When people asked me what the message was all about, I felt it was having some benefit.”He also became involved in green initiatives. In 2014, the State government selected him for the energy conservation promoter individual award with a purse of Rs.50,000 for his activities. In 2015, the KSEB gave him a good service entry with a cash award of Rs.25,000. Cycling paths alone are not enough, says Francis. There should be pedestrian paths too. “There is no space by the side of roads for people to walk, let alone for them to cycle,” he says. He also points out that people are scared of letting their children cycle. “Cycling should be promoted as way of recouping nature and health. There is a school at Udiyanoor in Kasragod district where over 1,500 students and some teachers come cycling.”He also wants children to be taught to repair bicycles as a way of developing their brain and thinking. “I am not against motor vehicles, but believe cycling is best for nature and for our health.”