http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/span-classng_byline_creditPerarivalan-renews-appeal-for-parolespanrequests-meeting-with-his-attacker/article14376010.ece

: A day after he was attacked by a fellow inmate inside the Vellore Central Prison for Men, A.G. Perarivalan, a life convict in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, has urged the Chief Minister to order a probe into the attack and also grant him parole. He also asked the Prison Superintendent to permit him to talk to his attacker, Rajesh Khanna, for two minutes.Another life convict, Rajesh Khanna alias Raj Kumar, had attacked Perarivalan (44) with an iron rod at the prison on Tuesday morning. Perarivalan sustained injury on his head, for which he received two stitches.Perarivalan’s advocate K. Sivakumar, who met him at the prison on Wednesday, said he had also suffered a fracture on his toe in the right leg. “Perarivalan has asked the Prison Superintendent to permit him to talk to Rajesh for two minutes. He has no idea why he was attacked and is yet to recover from the shock. He told me that Rajesh used to talk to him regularly,” he said.In fact, he has also asked the government to provide him medical treatment at a higher medical centre. “He is already suffering from high blood pressure, and urological and orthopaedic ailments. Following injuries in this attack, it will be better if he is treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai as only this hospital has rheumatology and urology specialities,” Mr. Sivakumar said.His application seeking parole has been pending for the last eight months. “Perarivalan has urged the government to grant him parole so that he could stay with his family in such a situation,” he said.Meets SC advocate K. Parivendan, a Supreme Court advocate, also met Perarivalan on Wednesday to discuss about the petition that the latter had filed in the apex court for his premature release. The petition comes up for hearing on September 19. “He had sought parole for a month eight months ago. This is the right time to grant him parole as he has not been keeping well and is under medication. This attack in his cell has led to depression and mental agony. The State government should look into his appeal and grant him parole to enable him to stay with his family,” he said. 