http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/PM-pitches-for-compassion-unity-to-end-Kashmir-crisis/article14594776.ece

Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday talked of the tense situation in Jammu and Kashmir, saying that any loss of life, whether of any youth or security personnel, is “our loss, a loss of our own people and our country.” He warned those pushing youngsters towards violence that they would be held accountable some day.Addressing the people through his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme, the Prime Minister said: “All political parties spoke in one voice on the recent happenings in Kashmir, sending out a strong message to the world as well as separatists, and also conveyed our sensitivities towards Kashmiris.”Unity and compassion in dealing with the situation in the State were the two things that the Prime Minister said he took away from his recent interactions with various political groups on the Kashmir policy.“It’s a view of 125 crore people of this country ... from a pradhan of a village to the Prime Minister, that if any life is lost in Kashmir it is our loss, a loss of our people and our country.”Ties with neighboursThe Prime Minister said the country had always made sincere efforts to strengthen its relationship with its neighbours. “I have tried my level best for good relations with our neighbours. President Pranab Mukherjee launched Akashvani Maitri channel, which will connect us with Bangladesh in a deeper way.”Mr. Modi also touched upon a variety of subjects, among them GST. He credited all parties with unanimously approving the GST Bill which, he said, displayed the strength of unity.“If we work together, then big results can be achieved and this was reflected in the passage of the GST Bill. Even after having rivalries, political parties came together in August 2016 to pass the GST Bill. The credit goes to all the parties.”Use eco-friendly idols, says PMPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday expressed concern over environmental degradation and urged people to use Ganesha and Durga idols made of clay instead of plaster of Paris during the upcoming festivals.Addressing people through his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme, the Prime Minister said: “Let’s adopt our traditional approach and use idols made of pond clay. This would help in preserving the environment.”Remembering Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, former President of India, whose birthday is celebrated as Teachers’ Day, Mr. Modi said September 5, is not just Teachers’ Day, but “a day of learning as well.”Salutes GopichandHe singled out Olympic medallist P.V. Sindhu’s coach P. Gopichand for praise. “I congratulate Pullela Gopichand for the success of his students in Rio Olympics. He is an example of an excellent teacher...I salute his hard work,” he said.The Prime Minister also paid tributes to hockey legend Dhyan Chand, and said the government was going to prepare a road map for future Olympics.On the recent Rio Olympics, Mr. Modi said, “We are proud of our daughters who proved themselves yet again in Rio. Our daughters from north, south, east and other parts of the country virtually took it upon themselves to bring laurels for the country. However, we still have a long way to go when it comes to sports. ”Talking of the Swachh Bharat campaign, Mr. Modi praised the pradhan who got a toilet built in the house of a girl after she staged a protest.“In Karnataka, 16-year-old Mallamma from Koppal village went on satyagraha against her own family for a toilet at home. Pradhan Mohammad Shafi arranged Rs.18,000 and ensured that the toilet was built. Hats off to the perseverance of Mallamma and Mohammad Shafi,” the Prime Minister said.He urged people to make short films on the subject clean India.“We are asking people to make 2-3 minute films on clean India and enter into a competition. Best entries will be awarded on the basis of the competition and screened on October 2 — Gandhi Jayanti,” Mr. Modi added.