http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/Pneumonia-slows-Hillary-fuels-conspiracy-theories/article14634876.ece

Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has continuously raised questions about his Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton’s stamina, encouraging conspiracy theories about her medical condition, but has had little success in triggering any serious debate on the issue. That may change now as Ms. Clinton cancelled her campaign events for the next two days after stumbling at a public event on Sunday, bringing focus on to her health.Ms. Clinton was helped on to her car by Secret Service agents as she dragged her foot and lost her balance after abruptly leaving a memorial ceremony in New York for the victims of the 9/11 terrorist strike. She went to her daughter Chelsea Clinton’s apartment, and emerged after 90 minutes to drive to her own home in the city."I am feeling great"“I am feeling great,” Ms. Clinton told waiting reporters. By evening on Saturday, her campaign released a statement that she had been diagnosed with pneumonia two days earlier, on Friday. Her doctor said she was on antibiotics and her schedule would have to be reworked. Ms. Clinton’s recurring cough has been noticed earlier but she has sought to laugh it away saying Mr.Trump makes her allergic.But clamour for a better explanation could grow in a society obsessed with the health condition of its leaders. Ms. Clinton has had health issues earlier, including a concussion while she was Secretary of State and a blood clot in her brain. But she has released only limited information on her health, though she has disclosed much more than Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump, who also attended the memorial event in New York City, did not comment on her condition.'Basket of deplorables' unifiesThe spotlight on her health comes a day after her comment that half of Mr. Trump supporters are “a basket of deplorables” led to an uproar, forcing her to retract it. The Republicans are a divided house and the only unifying factor for them is a shared antipathy towards Ms. Clinton. A debate on her, rather than Mr. Trump, is the last thing that could be helpful for the Democratic nominee. The “basket of deplorables” comment unified the Republicans and so will the health debate.Conspiracy theories about her health already abound in radio talk shows and extremist web platforms. Even her laughter has been portrayed as an example of crazy public behaviour. The mainstream American media has denounced these conspiracy theories, and even questioned Mr. Trump’s recurring insinuations about her health as an extension of his sexist mindset. Conspiracy theorists get new ammunition with the latest mishap.He is the 'healthiest candidate ever'Last month, Mr. Trump tweeted that “both candidates” should “release detailed medical records.” He has released only a brief statement by his gastroenterologist which said little more than declaring him the “healthiest presidential candidate ever.”