http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/Promoting-Sanskrit-through-journalism/article14393496.ece

 After successfully training school students in Sanskrit news reading, Samprativartah, an online Sanskrit news portal, has now set sights on graduate-level students to promote Sanskrit learning through journalism. The portal, promoted by Sanskrit teachers in Ernakulam and Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), will launch a six-month-long online certification course in Sanskrit journalism on September 16. The course is predominantly aimed at students doing Sanskrit graduation and B.Ed. “We are conducting the course for free since our sole aim is to popularise Sanskrit and to take the language to more people. As it is designed as an online course, it will be open to students from across the country. Already students from places such as Delhi have registered with us,” said O.S. Harikumar, chief editor of the portal and a member of the SSA’s Sanskrit Research Group that founded the online portal.The course will offer training in Sanskrit news writing, translation and spot reporting. The participants are selected on the basis of an online test and interview. Those who successfully complete the course will be given a certificate. Students will be made to translate at least one news item as part of the course considering that translation is one of the best ways to master the language, introducing them to new words and phrases. One faculty member has been assigned in charge of five students each and they will stay connected round the clock. Arrangements have been made to clear doubts through social media, WhatsApp and email. In a unique initiative to promote Sanskrit among the youth, Samprativartah had conducted three-day training in Sanskrit news reading for school students during the last vacation. The trained students then got an opportunity to exhibit their skill through a programme in All India Radio. The portal had been webcasting news read by upper primary students since June and by lower primary students since last month. For more details about the course, log on to www.samprativartah.in 