http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Re-imagining-the-edge-between-a-city-and-its-water/article14642181.ece

MUMBAI: A rapidly-growing population and the resultant rise in urbanisation has seriously challenged the mode of interaction between the city’s residents and its water bodies. The need to re-imagine this has prompted the Kamla Raheja Vidyanidhi Institute for Architecture and Environmental Studies (KRVIA) to organise an open competition to rethink the ‘edge’ where water and human settlements meet.The City and the Water’s Edge, a part of KRVIA’s 25th anniversary celebrations, aims to receive design proposals which also reflect an understanding of the city’s ecological, social and cultural characteristics. These designs are expected to incorporate a study of the city and its water bodies, while suggesting measures. The competition is open to students and professionals from belonging to fields other than architecture, but each team must include a professional urban or landscape designer, or an architect.Aneerudha Pal, director, KRVIA, said besides the urban population, indigenous communities like the Kolis have been living along the seashore and interacting with water bodies as per their profession. He said there is a need to involve them in the city’s architecture by re-imagining the point where their settlements intersect with other structures. “It is the reaction to water, and the uni-dimensional notion that every water body needs to be either religious or recreational, that needs to be changed.” Mr. Pal said cities need to explore the idea of using de-centralised forms of water like lakes and other natural reservoirs. “There can be other forms of imagination of water as well. Historically, our cities were never dependent on centralised water. We cannot be dependent on dams for our water problems; we need de-centralised water, and questions on this need to be taken up.” Neelkanth Chhaya, an Ahmedabad-based architect and academic and ex-dean, Centre for Environmental Planning and Technology University (CEPT), said architects and professionals must use judgement before undertaking a project. “An architect must know that he is dealing with human subjects and develop his ethos, while applying judgement and using his knowledge for dealing with a situation,” he said. “Before constructing a structure, factors like what it destroys and improves needs to be considered,” he said to a question on the feasibility of constructing a memorial to Chhatrapati Shivaji in the Arabian Sea. 