http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/Sahara-chief-Subrata-Roy-to-go-back-to-jail/article14643850.ece

The Supreme Court on Friday cancelled all interim relief, including the bail granted to Sahara chief Subrata Roy and two others, and directed them to be taken into custody. A bench headed by Chief Justice T.S. Thakur got infuriated when senior advocate Rajeev Dhawan, appearing for Sahara, said they were not involved in the process of selling of properties by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). “If you want to be heard, you go to jail. Don’t tell us what to do. All interim arrangements stand cancelled. Condemners are directed to be taken into custody,” the bench, also comprising Justices A.R. Dave and A K Sikri, said. - PTI Our Legal Correspondent reports:Stung by the order, Sahara's chief counsel and senior advocate Kapil Sibal left his sick bed to appear before Chief Justice of India T.S. Thakur to render an "unconditional apology" and withdraw the morning's order. The Bench expressed its displeasure for his repeated remarks that the court was not "fair". In the afternoon, just as the Bench was about to rise for the day, Mr. Sibal apologised on behalf of Sahara for Mr. Dhawan's comments in court. In the afternoon, just as the Bench was about to rise for the day, Mr. Sibal apologised on behalf of Sahara for Mr. Dhawan's comments in court.  Chief Justice Thakur, who was sitting in a different combination of Bench, said he would consult with his fellow judges on the Sahara Bench — Justices Anil R. Dave and A.K. Sikri — and take a call.  Referring to Mr. Dhawan's conduct earlier in the day, Chief Justice Thakur said: "What apology? It was too much. A gentleman may be eloquent, but eloquency is no substitute for good advocacy." "What can we say? The gentleman will not appear again," Mr. Sibal submitted.  "We also do a lot of introspection. We also wonder whether we have caused pain to anyone. But you have to understand, we too have a threshold to our tolerance. You cannot go on browbeating judges. We do not demand respect, but some respect has to be shown to the institution," Chief Justice Thakur replied.  "It will never happen again... what else can I say?" Mr. Sibal replied.  "Let me speak to the other judges... We are sorry to have brought a sick man to his legs because of this," Chief Justice Thakur said.  Mr. Dhawan, during a special hearing of the Sahara case at 10.30 a.m., took exception to the fact that SEBI was not involving them in the process of sale of their attached properties.  To this, the Bench said if Mr. Roy wanted to be heard, he should first go to jail.  “Don’t tell us what to do. All interim arrangements stand cancelled. Condemners are directed to be taken into custody,” the Bench had reacted.  Dhavan said it was not a fair statement that they should be sent back to jail. “We have deposited Rs. 352 crore already as per the last direction which is Rs. 52 crore more. It is not a fair statement,” Mr. Dhawan had persisted.  SEBI submitted that eight Sahara properties have been sold for Rs. 137 crore and 58 have been put up for auction.  The market regulator submitted that the list of properties given by Sahara were already of those attached by SEBI.  “You gave a list of properties which are already attached and you are not cooperating. It’s better you if you go to jail,” Chief Justice Thakur reacted, asking Sahara to deposit Rs. 300 crore to remain on parole.  The Bench asked Sahara chief to deposit Rs. 300 crore to be allowed to continue on parole.  The apex court had granted parole to Mr. Roy and two of his directors following the death of his mother Chhabi Roy in Lucknow.  The trio has been lodged in Tihar jail since March 4, 2014 on the orders of the apex court in relation with a long running dispute with market regulator SEBI. 