http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/Shubhang-Hegde-%E2%80%94-generating-a-buzz/article14456418.ece

 All-rounder Shubhang Hegde has racked up the numbers this season. The 15-year-old has generated a buzz in the cricket fraternity by scoring over 1000 runs and picking up close to 90 wickets in various age-group tournaments.His most recent standout show came in the KSCA Cup under-16 (Group I, first division) inter-school tournament final, held here a few days ago. Shubhang took eight for 66 with his orthodox left-arm spin and followed this up with a neat 61 to lead Delhi Public School (South) past St. Joseph’s Boys’ High School. With four centuries (highest of 191 against Vidyashilp Academy) and three 10-wicket hauls (best of 14 for 35 against Presidency School, Nandini Layout), this shy teenager has emerged as the key figure behind his school’s victory march.Shubhang has delivered the goods in the higher echelons as well. Playing for the Karnataka under-16 side in the Vijay Merchant Trophy, he picked up 22 wickets in five games, including a seven-for match-haul against Goa. The stats were equally good when he turned up to play for Swastic Union (2) in the KSCA under-19 inter-club tournament.His coach and Karnataka Institute of Cricket (KIOC) director, Irfan Sait, is astounded. “I’ve been coaching since 1984, but I cannot think of anyone who has posted these all-round numbers. The only person who came close was [Karnataka first-class cricketer] Shreyas Gopal, but he blossomed as a bowler much later in his career,” Sait says.With his elegant run-up and action, Shubhang is a purist’s delight. “He has turn, dip, nip, curl and flight. These are forgotten qualities, in this age of spinners firing it in,” Sait explains.It helps that Shubhang’s father, Samarth Hegde, is a club cricketer and coach at KIOC. “I tell him to treat failure as an opportunity to learn from his mistakes. That way, if and when he fails, he will know how to fight back,” Samarth states.It comes as no surprise that Shubhang names his father as his idol. “My dad was the first cricketer I saw in action. I’ve learnt a lot from watching him. In international cricket, I loved Daniel Vettori,” Shubhang says.The youngster moved from Vidya Niketan School to DPS (South) a few months ago, as the latter offered a better support system. “DPS (South) has allowed me a lot of freedom when it comes to playing cricket. Of course, when examinations approach, I stop playing to study,” Shubhang says.