http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/Sidhu-launches-Awaaz-e-Punjab/article14620210.ece

Cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu and Akali Dal MLA Pargat Singh, along with some other leaders on Friday announced the launch of a political front, Awaaz-e-Punjab.The formal announcement of the modalities of the new party would be made in the next few days, However, the leaders announced the birth of the political front — online through a poster that pictured Mr. Sidhu, Mr. Singh and the Bains brothers — Balwinder Singh Bains and Simarjit Singh Bains, who are Ludhiana-based Independent MLAs.“Our fight is against those who have ruined Punjab. We would work to serve the interests of Punjab,” says the poster.“We have decided to launch the political party — named Awaaz-e-Punjab and it would contest the 2017 assembly polls on all 117 seats,” Mr. Simrajit Bains told The Hindu.“The new front would work towards the interests of Punjab and its people. We have come together to fight traditional politics of dishonesty and corruption. Anyone who is willing to work for the interests of Punjab are welcome to join us,” he said.Reacting on the possibility the joining of Aam Aadmi Party’s former State convener Sucha Singh Chhotepur, Mr. Bains said, “Anyone who wants to honestly work for Punjab is welcome.”Mr. Chottepur has extended his support to the new party.Earlier, there were reports that Mr. Sidhu, who resigned as BJP Rajya Sabha member could join THE AAP.CM reactsMeanwhile, terming the Awaaz -e-Punjab front as a pack of “disgruntled and opportunist political leaders” without any ideological commitment, Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal said this front would hardly have any impact on State polity.In Lambi, Mr. Badal said the people have time and again reposed faith in pro-people and development oriented policies of the SAD-BJP alliance, which was committed to giving fillip to overall development of the State.“This front was the brainchild of ‘fugitive’ leaders who want to satiate their lust for power; the SAD-BJP alliance has been dedicatedly serving the people since last many decades,” he said.