http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Small-steps-towards-a-culture-of-fitness/article14436112.ece

Sometimes, we will be the cause of the problem we complain the most bitterly about.My son is hooked on gadgets and I grouse about this ad infinitum. And I also hear myself murmuring often that his grandparents are encouraging this behaviour by calling him ‘gadget guru’.I wouldn’t shift the blame on to others, if I did some soul-searching. Didn’t I gift him a Playstation 2 console on his fourth birthday and an Xbox 360 on his eighth? Yes, I did. Early this week, the boy turned 10 and I have deferred giving him a gift.As a way of making amends, I am planning a gift that would cost me just Rs. 200, but it can get him started on a path whose benefits would stay with him all his life.The gift is the registration fee of Kidathon, a run for children, from three years and above, which has been inked in for October 2. Not to be confused with the massive Chennai Kidathon, this one, called Tatva Kidathon, is aimed at drawing children from localities proximate to Old Mahabalipuram Road and Tambaram Velachery Main Road.An initiative of Tatva School in Polachery, near Thalambur, the event has three categories — 400 metres for children in the 3-5 age group, 1 km for those in the 5-8 age group and 2 km for those in the eight-and-above age group.“Initially, we wanted to do this only for our children,” says S. Balasubramanian, one of the founders of TATVA.And then, the idea grew bigger. It was decided other children could be allowed to run too. Not only that, a charity angle was added.Explains Balasubramanian, “It started with a small picture book called Wings To Fly, which we had received from our books supplier. The book is about a girl who lost the use of her legs at age one, and then painfully lived with the condition for the next fitteen years. The rest of the book is about how she overcame the limitations the condition had imposed on her. We realised the book was about a real person. It was about Malathi Krishnamurthy Holla, who has received the Arjuna award and Padma Shri by virtue of her sterling performances as a para athlete.”Following this discovery, the organisers realised Kidathon could have a motivational element to it, if Malathi could be a part of the run. So, the 58-year-old wheelchair-bound Malathi join the children in the run on October 2.“We get inspired by people who have achieved something big despite battling great odds. A girl unable to use her legs from age one, due to an infection and then, many years later, turning to sports to transcend the condition — fewer lives are more inspirational,” says Balasubramanian.Malathi, employed as a manager with Syndicate Bank, runs Mathru Foundation, which supports children with polio whose parents cannot afford their education and medical treatment.“Parents of the children who would take part in the Kidathon could make a donation to the Foundation, if they want to,” says Balasubramanian.“The race would start at the campus and end there, and as running partners, OMR Dreamers (the local chapter of Dream Runners) will mark out the route and make all other arrangements, which include ensuring the little participants stay hydrated and a provision for first-aid,” says P.V. Bharadwaj, coordinator of OMR Dreamers.As a complete surprise, I get an opportunity to interview two youngsters who have registered for the Kidathon. They are Bharadwaj’s children, 7-year-old Smayati (her name means ‘smile’ in Sanskrit) and 4-year-old Prahalad.True to her name, Smayati is generous with her smiles and asks more questions than she answers.“Can I get an autograph from this aunty (referring to Malathi)?”Having participated twice in the Terry Fox Run, once in the Chennai Kidathon and then having run in the recently-organised Go Green Run at Bollineni Hillside, she exudes the confidence of a veteran runner as we discuss running. “Have you won any prize in Chennai Kidathon?”“There is no winning in Kidathon. It’s a run for run,” she shoots back, her creased face with a surprised look, suggesting she thinks I am a hopeless ignoramus. (There are no prizes, only mementoes and certificates in the Tatva Kidathon too.)