http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/Somnath-Bharti-booked-for-assault-rioting/article14633330.ece

: Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Malviya Nagar, Somnath Bharti, has been booked for rioting and assaulting security guards of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) during an anti-encroachment demolition exercise last week.The police complaint submitted by the Chief Security Officer, AIIMS, alleges that Mr. Bharti arrived outside the hospital around 9:45 a.m. on September 9, and started breaking a fence in an unauthorised manner.“MLA Somnath Bharti along with 300 supporters assembled in Gautam Nagar near Nallah Road dead-end, and started breaking a fence on the boundary wall with the help of an earth mover in order to give access to unauthorised persons on AIIMS premises. They were claiming that the road belonged to the general public. When our security guards tried to step in, he attacked them,” read the complaint.It added that the MLA had failed to provide any documents to support his claims.“During their aforesaid action, they used abusive language and caused disturbance to the patients and employees of AIIMS,” it further stated.The MLA, however, said he was there to facilitate the drive that had been planned by the Public Works Department (PWD). The latter had issued several reminders to the institute to clear a part of its parking lot so that it could construct a road from General Raj School to Ring Road. According to Mr. Bharti, the road will help motorists avoid a circuitous route they currently take to reach Ring Road. On Sunday evening, he shared a letter written on September 7 by the PWD to the AIIMS Director requesting a no-objection certificate from the institute. A copy of the letter was marked to him as well.Resolution“When we reached the site and tried to contact AIIMS, nobody came forward. Around 9.30 a.m., residents gathered. However, as soon as the demolition began, AIIMS officials arrived. SHO, Hauz Khas, intervened, and the demolition on the promise that the institute would participate in a discussion on the issue on September 14,” said Mr. Bharti.“On Monday, I was to communicate to the PWD about the meeting, but today the news of this FIR came,” Mr. Bharti added. He also denied that a scuffle happened. Countering this, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Prem Nath said they had a video clip showing that a scuffle did occur.