http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/entertainment/Strumming-his-own-tune/article14563141.ece

To an outsider, celebrated Marathi filmmaker Ravi Jadhav has had a meteoric journey in the last five years. All five films he directed have had the rare distinction of being commercially successful even when bagging National Awards and other accolades by the bagful. Yet, the struggle to get this success has been real.Simple beginningsJadhav’s world is staunchly filmi, yet grounded in his down-to-earth background. Born and brought up in Worli, Mumbai, Jadhav is the youngest of four children. Growing up in a lower middle class home meant that most things were unattainable luxuries. In time, Jadhav’s father, a mill worker, finding it difficult to make ends meet, moved the family to Dombivili. Jadhav was then in Standard VII.Jadhav’s father had regrets about not pursuing his passion for music. Yet, when Jadhav wanted to enrol at the J.J. School of Arts to pursue a more creative future, his father expressed disapproval; he wanted to see his son in a ‘respectable job’ as a banker. Although Jadhav respected his father’s wishes, opting for the science stream for two years, he also quietly enrolled at JJ. For an entire year, he would make excuses to disappear in the mornings to attend his commercial art classes.Working his way upAfter graduating from art school, Jadhav worked with FCB Ulka, in time becoming an art director at the agency. Along the way, he discovered his love for writing, and by 2002, he was dabbling in copywriting. Three years later, he was successfully directing commercials for the agency’s clients. And by 2008, after 12 years in advertising, he had become creative director.Then he gave it all up to pursue filmmaking. It was not an easy decision. But, as he says, “Even though my dad was worried about my financial security during my student days, there was one thing that he would often say that stuck with me: ‘Don’t forget, you have only one life, so do as many different things as possible.’” Jadhav was also worried about his wife’s reaction. And yet, when he asked her, “She told me, ‘Bindaas do it’. My wife’s salary was not much and my son was four years old. So that [was] the toughest decision for me at that point of time. But I didn’t know any other way,” he says.Taking the other roadArmed with self belief as strong as that, it wasn’t long before Jadhav managed to get a producer for his first film, Natarang (2010), a film about a tamasha dancer (played brilliantly by Atul Kulkarni) it was also about a man giving up a life of luxury and certainty to follow his passion. “It was kind of a metaphor for the struggles that were going on within me. Also, Dad loved music so much, so I thought it would be nice to have him watch it,” he says simply. “People told me not to do a movie about tamasha because it is a dying art. [But] I was adamant, because I know that good art can always stir emotions in people,” he says. Natarang was not only a huge commercial success, but went on to win the National Award for Jadhav. “Dad was really proud of me,” he says. And his a manner clearly shows this was his biggest achievement.Jadhav’s next film was on the life of Balagandharva, one of the greatest singers the country has seen. Sound of Heaven: The Story of Balgandharva (2011) won three National Awards. The next film, Balak Palak (2012), was inspired by lack of sex education in the country. “I don’t understand why we are so prudish when talking about sex. So I decided to make a film on that. Though the film was on sex education, [the word] ‘sex’ was not used even once in the entire film.”Actor-producer Riteish Deshmukh’s interest was piqued when he heard of Jadhav’s plans. “When I told him about the script, he became curious and wanted to be part of it.” Deshmukh, not only became a co-producer of the film, but also ended up becoming a firm friend.For his fourth outing as a director, Jadhav choose to dabble with romance and made Time Pass (2014), which, once it hit the jackpot at the Marathi box office, was rapidly followed with a sequel, Time Pass 2 (2015). And Jadhav also found the time and energy to produce two other Marathi films for debutant directors. Learning a new languageJadhav is now back to conquering unknown territory. His next is a Hindi film, Banjo, which releases this week. This is a new challenge for him. “While making a Marathi movie, my primary audience is Marathi-speaking people. But [for] a Hindi movie, the audience could be from anywhere. [Catering to] such a diverse audience and different tastes is a big challenge for me right now.”“This story is universal,” he says. “I have always felt bad for the musicians who sing or play organs on the street or at events, but [whom] no one respects. Thousands and thousands of art forms are done on the street and if they get a platform, it would be a really nice thing.” Staying rootedWhat works for Jadhav is the close connect that he has with the real world. “That’s what makes me what I am,” he says. “I still go out seeking cutting chai or good vada pao on the streets.” He’s also most excited about simplicity. “Ideas have to be simple, execution can be complex. It has to be relatable. The best idea is when others think: ‘arrey, why couldn’t I think of this earlier?’ Like it happened to me when I was watching Munnabhai or Tanu weds Manu, or when I saw the Vodafone ad of the doggie following the man. I just hope people say that after watching Banjo!” Even though Jadhav now lives in a posher locality, his life has not really changed much. His parents still live in that flat in Dombivali and watch all his films in the neighbourhood’s Madhuban Theatre.“Even if I call them for the premiere, they refuse to come, saying, ‘We must pay for the tickets.’” His oldest brother is still an autorickshaw driver and plays his films’ songs in his autorickshaw. “When passengers appreciate [the songs], he calls me to tell me that,” he adds with a tinge of pride in his voice.The author is a freelance writer