http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/Teachers-told-to-help-inculcate-strong-moral-values-in-students/article14633358.ece

The former district in-charge Minister and MLA Satish L. Jarkiholi has called upon teachers to work towards bringing positive changes in the lives of students by inculcating strong moral values in them.Speaking after inaugurating a function organised by the Belagavi Zilla Panchayat and the Education Department to mark Teachers Day celebrations at Mahatma Gandhi Bhavan here on Thursday, he said that teachers could influence the young and unsuspecting minds in either ways and therefore, they need to be a role model for their students. The teachers should not find petty pretexts for not doing their job in a responsible way.Personality developmentHe said that teachers should use their spare time in personality development exercises for the all-round development of students. No nation could be strong tomorrow if its children and youth are weak today, and a strong, young force could continue the legacy of growth and progress, he added.Mr. Jarkiholi said that the nation celebrated Teachers Day on September 5 every year to pay tribute to the one of the greatest teachers and the former President late Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan. It is also celebrated to honour the contributions of teachers in imparting education and delivering good citizens to society and the country.On the occasion, 12 teachers from both the primary and high schools in the district were presented with the district-level “Best Teacher Award” and another 12 were given a “Special Award” after being selected by the district-level committee on the basis of third party information and feedback.Feroz N. Sait, MLA, presided over the function. Sri Siddharama Swami of Nagnur Rudrakshimutt, zilla panchayat president Asha P. Aihole and officials of the zilla panchayat and the Education Department were present.Rs. 1.5 cr. for guru bhavanBallari Special Correspondent reports from Koppal:Basavaraj Rayaraddi, Minister for Higher Education and Koppal district in-charge, has exhorted teachers to discharge their duties sincerely in a bid to do justice to the noble profession.Speaking after inaugurating the Teachers Day celebrations at Yelburga in Koppal district on Thursday, Mr. Rayaraddi said that it was teachers who played a pivotal role in strengthening the foundations of a civilised society and also in shaping the career of students to lead a decent life.“As the Nizams did not accord priority to education, the illiteracy percentage in the Hyderabad-Karnatak region was very high and teachers had to strive to improve it by imparting quality education and grooming students to face the challenges in a competitive era,” he added.In an appeal to teachers to stop indulging in local politics and concentrate on rebuilding moral values and strive to get good results in SSLC so that the district finds a top position at the State level, Mr. Rayaraddi assured them of getting Rs. 1.5 crore for the guru bhavan to be built at Yelburga.He also said that he was awaiting the Dr. Mulimani Committee report to chalk out special programmes for the development of educational facilities that would help increase the percentage of students joining higher education, particularly in the Hyderabad-Karnatak region.He felicitated teachers conferred with the best teacher award at the district level.Siddarameshwar Shivacharya Swamiji, Basavalingeshwar Shivacharya Swamiji, Amarnath Patil, MLC, Lakshmamma Neerloti, zilla panchayat vice-president, were present.