http://www.thehindu.com/society/The-Onam-that-was/article14432720.ece

“This Onam, buy one grinder and get one free.”“Bumper Onam offers! Buy smartphones for the entire family!”I turn off the radio. During Onam, television and radio channels become a mouthpiece for one brand or the other. This is my grandmother’s favourite joke: “By the time one movie is over on TV, you can finish all your household chores.” Thanks to the one million advertisements.Cinema is the next big thing. Families invariably flock to theatres to watch their favourite star’s film. People brave the hot sun and stand in queues, which are as long as those for the ready-made sadya kits and the palada tumblers.When I was a kid, Onam meant shopping and watching films. My cousin and I would wreak havoc at home if otherwise. The elders would frown. “Kids these days. Back in our times...” They would go on a nostalgic trip and we would grumble. Sitting at home and listening to old tales was not our idea of fun.Now, times have changed. This year, I spent Onam with my paternal grandmother. After catching up on some family gossip, we switched on the television to watch Malayalam actors in kasavu saris and mundu greeting us ‘Happy Onam’, as they promoted their Onam releases. After the heady payasam and the sadya, all of us withdrew into our respective rooms to take a nap. But, I could hear the elders chatting.My grandmother rued how no one would sleep in the afternoons on Onam day. Instead, the ladies in the house would gear up for the Onakkali (traditional dance) and the men would get ready for Onathallu (wrestling with bare hands). “Half the excitement of Onam is after the sadya.”The children imbibed lessons on Nature. The hunt for flowers such as thumba poo, chemparathi, mukkutti poo, kaashi thumba,and naalumani poo would begin early in the morning, my dad reminisced. “It would be a riot of colours. All of them were seasonal flowers; some with thorns, each with a unique fragrance.” The flower carpet patterns would spring from the imagination of the children.But now, people head to the market to buy flowers. Chendu malli, gundumalli... it’s all become so predictable. Sourced in bulk from other States, these flowers are sold in plastic bags. Children google for the symmetrical and Instagram-friendly flower carpets.Today, sadya kits and palada pradhamans are just a phone call away. Back then, the Onam meal was a collective affair, says my mother. “Men, women, and children were equally involved.”The best part was stocking the kitchen with the nendran bananas a day before the festival, says my uncle. “Because you get to eat boiled pazham and pappadam for breakfast only during these days. I would wait for my father to bring home nendrans.”As I listened to all this, I realised our gatherings have grown smaller with every Onam. Many of my cousins are abroad and do not travel all the way for the festival. My cousin in London sent me a picture of her wearing a kasavu sari on WhatsApp. Another in Bangalore posted a series of pictures on Facebook, saying how she missed us all.Even the myths are changing. Recently, a politician put an unexpected twist on the age-old tale of Mahabhali, the hero of the Onam legend. He completely sidelined the pot-bellied, friendly Asura king from the narrative, adding an unfortunate political angle to the celebrations.As I fell into my palada-induced sleep on festival day, I realised that I missed what I had taken for granted. I wanted to go back to the days of my grandparents. I wished that their black-and-white memories would visit me in my dreams.