http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/The-wait-continues/article14436073.ece

Residents of Nanganallur and Pazhavanthangal have been irked by the delay in the implementation of the Rs. 64 crore drinking water project by the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission. The project was inaugurated by the Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa in February 2014 and the work included laying of new mains, sub-mains, new house service connections and construction of seven overhead tanks (in addition to the six old overhead tanks that have already been constructed). As per the project, water will be supplied on alternate days through new house connections. In the areas where the project has been implemented, which include Lakshmi Nagar, Sri Ram Colony, Kuppuswamy Naidu Layout and certain pockets of Nanganallur from 41st to 46th streets, residents have positive stories to tell. Residents of Bharathiyar Street, Pazhavanthangal, College Street and Ram Nagar, Nanganallur are still waiting for the benefits the project promises. In Bharathiyar Street, Pazhavanthangal, the sub-mains and new house water connections have not been laid and residents get water only once in three days,” R. Santhanakrishan, a resident of Bharathiyar Street, said. It is a different story at College Street and Ram Nagar. Though sub-mains and new connections have been laid, residents get water only through old pipes and that too, only once in four days. V. Rama Rao, a social activist, says, “As residents mainly rely on the CMWSSB drinking water supply, a high-level technical committee should be constituted to resolve the problem. Steps must be taken to de-silt and deepen the Adambakkam lake, which is a vital source from recharging the groundwater table in Nanganallur and Adambakkam.” CMWSSB sources said the project had been held up for want of funds. An estimate has been prepared to revive the project and to provide main and sub-main connections. “The work for the same will start at the earliest,” the sources added. 