http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Thiruvananthapuram/Thiruvananthapuram-police-under-severe-strain-for-want-of-hands/article14639744.ece

: With resources stretched beyond their limit, the City police are counting on the government and the State Police Chief to address their long-standing demand for additional manpower. The requirement for additional security personnel has been necessitated by the peculiar nature of responsibilities in the State capital. Besides maintenance of law and order, the Thiruvananthapuram City police are entrusted with other responsibilities pertaining to the Legislative Assembly, Government Secretariat, headquarters of various departments, and other government offices. The frequency of demonstrations in front of the Secretariat and other centres, with some requiring high level of attention, also figures high on the factors that necessitated additional strength of police personnel. “At present, the Armed Reserve (AR) police camp here has a sanctioned strength of over 800 personnel. However, the strength is inadequate at times when the requirement for security forces is more during extraordinary situations,” City Police Commissioner G. Sparjan Kumar said. According to him, around 250-300 personnel are deployed each day to escort prisoners. Nearly 350 officers from both the AR camp as well as the local police are assigned for the personal security of Ministers and other VIPs. Besides, personnel are also deployed on guard duties at treasuries, banks and other places that require round-the-clock surveillance. “We are left with little options but to deploy personnel from the local police stations for such purposes. As per the prescribed guidelines, the local police should function in full strength for effective policing, which includes crime investigation as well as maintenance of law and order,” Mr. Kumar pointed out. He held the view that the sanctioning of 3 or 4 companies, each with 72 personnel attached to it, is necessary to ensure a permanent set-up to deal with contingencies and unforeseen developments. A dedicated unit of at least 200 officers at least is required to resolve the problem to a certain extent, he said. The City Police Commissioner also stressed the need for an increase in staff strength of the traffic police. The previous revision in the number of posts for the wing was implemented several years ago, he said. Since then, several new roads have come up within the city limits, thereby increasing the requirement of personnel. The wing has nearly 100 traffic wardens at present. The assistance of the local police is often sought to regulate traffic on special occasions such as during the reopening of schools.