http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Three-flood-ravaged-bridges-all-set-to-get-a-makeover/article14540571.ece

Construction work on three bridges across the Kosasthalaiyar and Cooum rivers in Tiruvallur district is expected to commence in three months. The bridges at Muthukondapuram, Puduchatram and N.N.Kandigai were washed away in last year’s floods and temporary structures to restore traffic flow were constructed in their place. An expert said that most bridges in the State had suffered damages during the deluge in December due to rampant illegal sand mining in areas too close to the foundations of the structures. P.S. Sathish, who fought against sand mining in R.R. Kandigai in Tiruvallur district and obtained a ban order from the NGT, said sand mining would have corroded the foundations of the bridges. Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had recently announced the construction of a Rs. 11 crore bridge at Muthukondapuram. A. Anand, resident of Cauveryrajapuram said many residents were wary of using the temporary causeway. “It would be better if the bridge is inspected and strengthened as a similar amount of rain is being predicted this time too,” he said. In December, residents of villages including Karani Nizampattu, Koormaivilasapuram, Athipattu, Cauveryrajapuram, Rangapuram, Ramapuram, Mittapalayam and Rasapalayam had to take a detour to reach Kanakammachathram. Another bridge across the Kosasthalaiyar will come up at a cost of Rs. 20 crore at N.N. Kandigai on the Tiruttani–Nagalapuram Road. The two-lane facility will be 360 metres long. “I remember a car was washed away in the floods when the bridge collapsed,” said Mr. Sathish. At Puduchathram village, across the Cooum, a breached causeway would be replaced by a high level bridge at a cost of Rs. 15 crore. “A small check dam upstream was also washed away in the floods. There is no lighting on the temporary bridge and it is narrow, which can be used by only one vehicle at a time,” said T. V. Dilip Kumar, who runs a flyash brick unit at Pakkam village. Sources in the Highways department said that since no land acquisition was involved in any of the bridges, all that would be required was to float tenders for the construction and commence work. 