http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Tracing-MS%E2%80%99-musical-journey-through-the-pages-of-a-daily/article14460721.ece

 In a fitting tribute to legendary carnatic musician M. S. Subbulakshmi on the occasion of her birth centenary, a book titled MS Revisited was released here at Kalakshetra Foundation on Saturday. The book, published by The Hindu, traces her musical journey through the pages of the newspaper. Recalling the association of The Hindu and his family with MS and her husband Sadasivam, N. Ravi, Director, Kasturi & Sons Ltd., said her musical genius was recognised by the great musicians of the carnatic world the moment she stepped on to the stage as a young girl. From then on, there was no stopping her six-decade-long journey to greatness. In the 1940s when she stepped on to the all India stage with the rendering of bhajans, she won instant appreciation from Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Sarojini Naidu, as well as from renowned hindustani musicians. He said the book recounted the several stages in the life of MS, including her trip to the United States in 1966 for a performance at the United Nations and 15 concerts in different cities. This landmark event has been described in the book by C. V. Narasimhan, former UN Chef de Cabinet and the person instrumental in arranging that trip. “To take vocal Carnatic music to unfamiliar territory was somewhat of a gamble, but the fears of the organisers were soon dispelled when the music critics of American newspapers all ‘praised her to the skies’.” He concludes, “She came, she sang, and she conquered.”Mr. Ravi said the book also had articles by The Hindu’s long-time music critic, S.V. Krishnamurthy, and Gowri Ramnarayan who wrote about the making of MS in 1983 and also the obituary tribute on her passing.Mr. Ravi released the book, the first copy of which was received by N. Gopalaswami, Chairman of Kalakshetra Foundation, Priyadarshini Govind, director, Kalakshetra, and Ms. Gowri Ramnarayan. The launch was followed by Miradasi, a tribute to M.S. Subbulakshmi and Kalakshetra founder Rukmini Devi Arundale.