http://www.thehindu.com/sport/cricket/Tuti-Patriots-qualifies-for-semis/article14359809.ece

 Several times, amidst the long hits and the resultant mayhem, some outstanding bowling displays go unnoticed in the shortest form of the game. Truth to tell, even in a format heavily favouring batsmen and the big bats, bowlers, even the vulnerable spinners, can make an impression.Left-arm spinner Aushik Srinivas’s two successive maidens with the new ball when the batsmen were targeting the stands, was one such occasion.He operated with outstanding control, even removing G. Vigensh by altering his length. Aushik’s run-less two-over spell for Albert Tuti Patriots against Madurai Super Giants was a nugget.Aushik’s new ball partner, incredibly another left-arm spinner M. Ganesh Moorthi, too bowled with accuracy and imagination.Backed by disciplined bowling after scoring a challenging 167 for six — the innings was fuel-driven by opener Kaushik Gandhi’s 86 (55b, 8x4, 3x6) — Tuti Patriots defeated Super Giants by 33 runs in the India Cements-TNPL Twenty20 tournament at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium here on Tuesday. By restricting the Madurai team to a total below 137, Tuti Patriots also qualified for the semifinals as the third placed team in the table. The Tuti pacemen too made an impression. The wily Balaji gave little away and the lively Aswin Crist cleaned up key man Shijit Chandran (33) with an in-swinging yorker.Madurai, unable to extricate itself from a deep hole, slumped to its seventh straight defeat. Earlier, the Patriots’ innings revolved on a 85-run partnership in 60 deliveries between Kaushik Gandhi and Washington Sundar (34). Kaushik is a compact batsman with a rousing cover-drive. He got to the pitch of the ball and repeatedly pierced the off-side field. Between clean, orthodox strokes, the quick-footed Kaushik displayed the reflexes to slash pacemen M. Raja and the anticipation to create room by getting outside the line and directing the ball between the ‘keeper and the fine-leg.When the delivery was pitched short, Kaushik got on to the back-foot in a jiffy to essay the pull. This was an innings where the 26-year-old right-hander judged length capably. The left-right combination hurt the Madurai side. Southpaw Washington, among the most exciting batting prospects from the State, caught the eye with his footwork and timing.He employed his feet to drive leg-spinner S.V. Muruganantham straight. The tall and languid Washington then danced down to ease the bowler over his head for the maximum.Towards the end, there were three wickets in an over for Raja as the batsmen pursued runs but then Tuti Patriots had made far too much against a dispirited opposition.It was a bridge too far. The scores: Albert Tuti Patriots 167 for six in 20 overs (Kaushik Gandhi 86, Washington Sundar 34, M. Raja three for 41) beat Madurai Super Giants 134 for eight in 20 overs (Shijit Chandran 33, Francis Rokins 28).