http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Two-arrested-for-hijacking-cash-van/article14617429.ece

The police on Wednesday unravelled the plot behind the brazen theft of a cash-laden vehicle at Mannady, the city’s busy financial centre, as staff filled up the chest of an ATM.The Flower Bazaar Police arrested two persons who were allegedly involved in stealing the vehicle from where it was parked near Angappan Naicken Street on Tuesday.Brinks India, a logistics company, has been contracted for services such as cash management and maintenance of ATMs for nationalised banks and private financial organisations. On Wednesday, at 11 a.m., a team comprising Anandan, the filling agent, and Surendrakumar Singh, the gunman, took Rs. 1.63 crore from their office in Ayanavaram and travelled in a Tata Sumo driven by Narayanan to fill up various ATMs in the city.They reached Post Office Street at 7 p.m. Leaving Rs.47.5 lakh in the parked vehicle with the driver on the street near a biriyani outlet, the other two went with Rs. 9 lakh to fill up the IOB ATM on Angappan Naciken Street. At the time, an unknown person called the driver over the mobile phone to the ATM, pretending to be the colleague who had just left to fill the cash.However, when the driver reached the ATM after locking the vehicle, other two shouted at him for leaving the vehicle with the cash. Sensing that something was wrong, the trio rushed outside only to find the vehicle missing. They immediately registered a complaint at the North Beach Police Station.All police stations, officials, and police patrol vehicles were alerted through wireless across the city.Vehicle checksIntensified checks on vehicles were conducted at vantage points. Finally, the vehicle was found abandoned near Madha Koil Street, Royapuram. While Rs. 21.5 lakh and other documents were available, Rs. 26 lakh was missing.On interrogating the driver Narayanan, police discovered that a man named Rajesh, who was also employed as a driver for the group, working in the Ennore area rang him twice to find out where they were. S. Jayakumar, Deputy Commissioner of Police told The Hindu , “Initially, we suspected that it was an inside job and conducted a thorough investigation with nine staff of the organisation. Finally, we zeroed in on Rajesh and nabbed him early morning at Koyambedu and recovered Rs. 26 lakh from him.”Rajesh allegedly engaged Lingam (24), a relative who made the call summoning the driver to the ATM and diverted the attention of driver. As planned, he drove away the vehicle with cash using a duplicate key he had made earlier.He allegedly told the police that he parked the vehicle in Royapuram, and was going to his sister’s house in Perumbakkam, Tiruvallur, with the loot when he was caught red-handed. He told the police that he had planned and executed the robbery in order to fund his wedding. Police also arrested Lingam.One of the accused was employed by the same logistics firm and planned the theft to fund his wedding