http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Urban-jungles-turn-safe-haven-for-stray-dogs/article14519967.ece

 Endangering the lives of people, deserted private and revenue lands in the city have turned safe havens for stray dogs. In some locations, dilapidated buildings have become dens of ferocious dogs.  Even small plots covered with wild plants and creepers have turned out to be breeding grounds for the ever multiplying population of street dogs. It is the food and meat waste thrown in unoccupied locations that attract these animals. “Afraid of venomous snakes, some of the residents had recently cleared the undergrowths in some of the public places close to the Kozhikode mini bypass road, but the wild plants are still growing in many locations,” says V. Damodaran, a resident of Arayidathupalam. Workers of the Corporation are least interested in clearing such places other than collecting the waste dumped at common locations, he says.  Close to the Sarovaram Biopark, there are several locations where the creepers obstruct visibility and give chance for the miscreants to dump degradable and non-degradable waste in huge bundles. As there are no proper surveillance mechanisms to stop this, street dogs are always roaming around in the area for food.  “Also, the undergrowths have emerged as a safe haven for the multiplication of mongooses. The creature is also suspected to be spreading rabies,” says Azeem, a junk dealer near Sarovaram. He also points out that the interior areas of Vadakara have recently witnessed several incidents in which the mongoose spread rabies to other animals. The municipal corporation had issued orders to owners of such private land to clear the wild growths and adopt necessary measures to prevent waste dumping. “Residents had mainly raised complaints against some of the private properties along Panicker Road in the wake of recent dog bite cases. Notices have been issued to the owners concerned to address the issue properly,” say corporation officials.