http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/When-postman-knocked/article14454505.ece

My item which talked about Ford’s long history in India (Miscellany, August 29) had Bhaskarendra Rao sending me an advertisement (featured today) from a 1923 newspaper and wondering whether Oakes & Co. and George Oakes were one and the same. They were not — and therefore offer a number of different stories.  Oakes Delgairns & Co had its roots in a general goods stores established in 1843 by William Oakes and partners on Popham’s Broadway. Two years later it was to move into larger premises on the same road, where it developed into the biggest departmental store in the South. The store here expanded considerably and by 1857 called itself Oakes & Co, and its handsome premises Exchange Hall. By 1860 it was claiming to have “the largest stock of general goods in Madras (Presidency)”. It had also begun to expand its business activities, getting into new fields.  One of these was the automobile business which it entered in 1907, importing its first Ford as an agent of the American company. Soon, it was a name to reckon with in India. The 1911 Delhi Durbar saw it selling the Government of Madras 10 20HP Ford touring cars for use during the Durbar and 40 of the same model to the Governments of Bengal, Burma and Assam for the same purpose. But, for all this success, William Oakes was feeling challenged. Two of his salesmen from Exchange Hall had left in 1863 to start Durrant and Spencer on Mount Road, a small general goods store. After Eugene Oakshott had taken over this growing store and moved it, as Spencer & Co, in 1895, into a magnificent new premises further down Mount Road, Oakes & Co had a major challenger. By 1912, Spencer’s had begun eyeing a takeover of Oakes & Co., its J O Robinson-led Board “unanimous of opinion that in acquiring the control and thus preventing it from passing into the hands of others who might prove stronger competitors in the future than Oakes & Co Ltd had been in the past” might be in its best interest. Acquisition of shares and negotiations continued at snail’s pace before Spencer’s announced in 1923 that it had acquired most of Oakes, but for the Motor Department. To take over that department “with its valuable Ford agency”, negotiations began in 1924 and culminated in 1926 with a purchase price of Rs.6 lakh, which included machinery and premises on Mount Road and in Guindy and Ooty. Spencer’s had been eyeing Oakes’ motor car business from 1920 when it opened its own Motor Department. But when it found it could not cope with the challenge Ford and Oakes offered, it closed its own department down and took over Oakes’. Ford, however, claiming it was not too happy with Spencer’s performance at Oakes, withdrew its agency in 1930. In reality, benefiting from the ground Oakes and Spencer’s had hoped for it, it had decided to set up its own sales network. Spencer’s, not long afterwards, decided to bring to a close its motoring (ad)venture and rented its motor department premises, 199-200 Mount Road, to Ford. A few years later it sold the property to The Hindu, for its new office, and Simpson’s.  The George Oakes story is a different story altogether through it eventually links up. George Oakes ran ‘The Garage’ in Ooty, and it was regularly used by W W Ladden, a Director of Simpson’s, when he was on holiday. When an ageing George Oakes wanted to sell out, Ladden bought the business in 1945 and named it George Oakes Ltd. In 1945, he sold it to Simpson’s which, around the same time, acquired Gordon Woodroffe’s Motor Department, which had for a while held the Ford sub-agency for certain districts. With Woodroffe’s machinery and property on Mount Road, George Oakes was big enough to handle a territorial agency for Ford, which, in the early 1940s, had a relook at its sales strategy and decided to appoint territorial agents. George Oakes was the winner in the South. And, Ford was back with an eponymous agent it had virtually started business with in the Madras Presidency.  When Bhaskarendra Rao sent me the Ford ad, he added a tidbit; apparently, there was something called a Ford Rail Car seating 52 persons. The Madras & South Mahratta Railway in 1937 imported this petrol-driven vehicle and used it for its Madras City Suburban Service. Is there a reader who can shed light on this?Sketching not allowedA couple of artists the other day complained to me that sketching of the monuments at Mahabalipuram was not allowed. Photography or hand-held videography was permitted on payment of a nominal fee. A local ASI official who was contacted quoted some rule — quite possibly, I thought, one dating to before the age of the camera, and sketching was the only alternative!  Anyway, the artists took the matter further and discovered the rules dated to 1959. They were also told “as per Chapter - VIII of AMASR Act, 1959 copying and filming of protected monument permission of the Competent Authority is required for using camera-stand, stool, chair, table, large drawing board, easel or any such appliances. However, no permission is required if any person is not using these appliances within the precincts of a monument.”  Presumably, therefore, sketching on pads is freely permitted, but not if you bring along a drawing board or an easel. The ASI sent with this response “a copy of the relevant chapter”, which makes fascinating reading. It states:CHAPTER VIIICOPYING AND FILMING OF PROTECTED MONUMENTS40. Permission required for copying certain monuments – The Director General may, by order, direct that no person other than an archaeological officer or an officer authorized by an archaeological officer in this behalf shall copy any specified monument or part thereof except under and in accordance with the terms and conditions of a permission in writing granted by an archaeological officer.41. Conditions of copying other monuments – (1) Any person may copy a protected monument in respect of which no order under rule 40 has been made. I wonder how a visitor is to know which monument is covered by rules 40 and 41 of Chapter VIII. I also wonder how in this day and age such rules are allowed to exist. Why so few titles?It was at a recent talk on ‘Cricket in Madras’ that I once again heard what a wonderful set-up there was for cricket in the city — and even the State — how well the competitions were organised, how much professionalism there was, how well the corporates supported the game, how wonderful the facilities and grounds are, etc. But, to my question of why Tamil Nadu/Madras had so few Ranji Trophies to show for all this splendid organisation, there was no convincing answer from the expert.Could it be that Tamil Nadu never played as a team, selections being made from leading corporate-supported XIs resulting in little cooperation? Could it be an intellectual attitude to the game, where style is more important than substance? Could it be a lack of aggressiveness in going for the kill? Could it be a certain comfort level bred by the generosity of the corporates? Could it be a mental block when playing against teams like Bombay and Delhi? There are any number of questions, but, at the end of it all, Tamil Nadu teams, which on paper look match-winners, year after year, wind up without any major national trophies.What concerns me in all this is that all those who support the best teams in the State do not appear concerned enough when their players do not perform at the State level. Even the speaker the other day did not seen too perturbed about this; producing stars for India seemed a greater requirement than making the State a winner. Perhaps, it’s time those who pay the piper also begin calling the tune for better performances for the State. May be, a carrot and stick policy is what is needed.Many years ago, a State skipper who played for a draw and who was irked by my suggestion of going for a win with a challenging declaration, rang me up and angrily asked me what I knew about cricket. I can imagine that happening on this occasion too. But that will not bring Tamil Nadu the Ranji Trophy. What will, needs to be examined more seriously than organising money-making T20 extravaganzas.