http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/Women-break-new-ground-in-Ramapuram/article14376498.ece

At 10 a.m. every day, a group of six to eight women wearing an orange jacket enter and exit IT and corporate firms in Ramapuram area. On the face of it, they look like techies assigned to carry out a specialised task. But a closer look reveals a different story.The women representing Amazon India have been vying with the hitherto male-dominated logistic sector for the past few weeks to deliver parcels to those working in IT firms and commercial establishments. By doing so, they have earned the distinction of being the first women-only team to deliver commercial goods in Chennai.It all started with R. Jamuna Rani of Sarini Associates joining Amazon India under its Service Partner Programme. Initially, the women-only team consisted of three staffers and now it has grown to nine. On a daily basis, they deliver up to 120 parcels. Talking to The Hindu, she said that she had selected Ramapuram for two reasons — a secure place and for being home to a large number of commercial establishments. “When someone told me about an opportunity to work with Amazon, I jumped at the offer. I hired three staffers and we have been quite successful. Now, I have increased my team’s size to eight and might add some more people soon.”Amazon has been delivering goods through its own channel, third-party logistics players and service partners.Having first set its foot in India some three years ago to transform the buying and selling pattern of Indian consumers through online, Amazon decided to set up its first All Women Service Partner Programme in Thiruvananthapuram in March 2016 followed by Puducherry and Chennai.“We are the only one to do it. It is our way of empowering women and helping them to become successful entrepreneurs. We can clearly say this is the first all-women delivery station for Amazon in Chennai,” said Akhil Saxena, Amazon India Vice-President, India Customer Fulfilment.“Currently, we cover 19,000 pincodes across the country,” he said.Asked about the challenges faced by the women, Ms. Jamuna Rani said they have fixed working slots in the mornings and evenings. In between, the staffers take a short break to complete their daily chores. “Diwali is a big festival season during which maximum sales takes place. We are gearing up to meet the challenge. We are also asking Amazon to give us one more area to deliver goods. Hope they agree,” she said.