http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/kozhikode/Work-for-country%E2%80%99s-future-youth-clubs-told/article14494294.ece

 Assembly Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan exhorted the youth to imbibe the real spirit of sporting and cultural clubs. Speaking after distributing the youth awards of the Nehru Yuva Kendra here on Saturday, Mr. Sreeramakrishnan advised the youth to work for a drastic change in the club culture. “It’s time you changed the old style. It’s time you worked for constructively building the country’s future,” he said.The Speaker said that there should be unity amongst the individuals when they work for the welfare of the public, in spite of maintaining political differences among them.“The society now needs good food movements, good environment movements, and good drinking water movements. You must devise schemes aimed at ensuring good food, water and environment,” he said.District Panchayat president A.P. Unnikrishnan, District Collector A. Shainamol, Municipal chairperson C.H. Jameela, Sanitation Mission Coordinator T.P. Hyderali and Nehru Yuva Kendra coordinator K. Kunhimohammed spoke.The Speaker gave away Rs. 8,000 and Rs. 4,000 and citations to youth clubs that won the first and second prize respectively at the block level.Viva Arts and Sports Club and Puma Natural Club won the first and second prizes respectively in Malappuram block.In Mankada block, Kalambadi Reflection and Perinthateeri Sahridaya won the prizes. In Perinthalmanna, Pathaykkara CPC Youth Star and Oravamburam Fantastic won the prizes.Kondotty United Arts and Valavattur Ideal Cultural Association won the prizes in Kondotty block. Pallikkunnu Yuvabhavana and Pathiriyal Yuva Club won the prizes in Wandoor block. In Vengara, Kolappuram Navakerala and Ambalamedu Famous won the prizes.Karakkode New M Star and Palakkar New Star won the prizes in Nilambur.Eravaramkunnu Cultural Forum and Pavittapuram NCSC won the prizes in Perumpadappu. Samanwaya Alungal and Kodinhi Shilpa won the prizes in Tirurangadi block.Thekkumuri Yuvajana Vayanasala and Suhrudam Social and Cultural Organisation won the prizes in Areekode. Nattukoottam and Edappal Nattunanma won the prizes in Ponnani block. In Tanur, Youth Wing Ponmundam and Young Men Cultural Association won the prizes. In Tirur, Sadaco Chennara and Pallippadi Winners got the prizes. In Kuttippuram block, Karakkode Vikas and Green Power Bhavapadi won the prizes.