http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/%E2%80%98CM-must-speak-up-on-Ramkumar%E2%80%99s-death%E2%80%99/article14538904.ece

COIMBATORE: Desiya Murpoku Dravida Kazhagam leader Premalatha Vijayakant has asked the Chief Minister Jayalalithaa to speak up on murder accused P. Ramkumar’s death inside Puzhal prison and held the State Government accountale for the incident.Addressing reporters on arrival at the Coimbatore airport on Monday, she said that the Chief Minister, who held the Home Department portfolio, must explain what led to his death. If a person was not safe inside the prison in the State, where else would he be safe. The incident only pointed to the deteriorating law and order situation in the State, for which the Chief Minister was responsible.In response to a question on Income Tax department’s raid at former minister Natham R. Viswanathan’s residence, Ms. Vijayakant said that the raid pointed to a scame that took place during Ms. Jayalalithaa’s tenure and that the latter must take responsibility for it.As for the Cauvery issue, she blamed the political parties in the both the States for trying to score political points. The parties don’t seem to be interested in solving the issue keeping in mind the people’s needs. Later addressing around 400 party workers at an agitation the party had organised near the Coimbatore South Taluk office, she said that the Central Government and State Governments should act fast enough to prevent Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh from constructing dams across rivers as the move would turn Tamil Nadu a dry land.If the Kerala Government were to go ahead and construct a dam across River Siruvani in Attapady, the Western districts in Tamil Nadu would be affected. The DMDK would do all it could prevent Kerala from constructing the dam. Karnataka was not only trying to construct a dam across River Cauvery but was also refusing to release to Tamil Nadu’s righful share of the river water.She then appealed to the voters to not take money from political parties but for change, better Tamil Nadu.Ends/KM