http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/%E2%80%98Fixing-potholes-is-a-continuous-exercise%E2%80%99/article14594661.ece

Representatives of various residents’ associations and citizens met BBMP officials to discuss some key issues regarding the condition of roads and pavements in their neighbourhoods. The meeting with K.T. Nagaraj, Chief Engineer (Major Roads), was facilitated by The Hindu as part of its #whatsyourissue campaign, which focused how to improve our roads and pavements.Residents discussed the danger that potholes posed to motorists and pedestrians, and also raised the issue of manholes, which are at times six inches above the road surface. They cited specific trouble spots in Langford Town, Lavelle Road, Koramangala, HSR Layout, R.T. Nagar and Chikpet.Trade activist Sajjan Raj Mehta from Chikpet pointed to the potholes on Avenue Road, B.V.R. Iyengar Road and A.S. Char Street. BBMP officials promised to look into it.“Fixing potholes is a continuous exercise. But, as soon as we fix it, there is some issue either with sewage or other road-cutting works resulting in stagnant water, leading to potholes," said Mr. Nagaraj.“We have also raised the issue of manholes several times,” he said while responding to a question on the lack of co-ordination with BWSSB, BESCOM and other agencies.Mirza Ismail of the Richmond and Langford Town Association highlighted over-flowing drains, broken footpaths, cuts on roads and potholes on Curly Street, Alexandria Street and the stretch from Nanjappa Circle to Richmond Road. BBMP engineers promised quick resolution of these problems.Sunita Kumar from Lavelle Road spoke about the lack of good pavements. Kavita Reddy from HSR Layout said there were no shoulder drains on roads causing water to accumulate.The engineers said that there is no short-term solution to these problems. “There are a host of issues regarding maintenance of road. Asphalted roads where there is no demand for utilities like sanitation lines are the easiest to maintain,” said Mr. Nagaraj.Both the officials and citizens agreed that such regular interactions help them identify and resolve issues.