http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/%E2%80%98Hyderabad-State%E2%80%99s-history-needs-to-be-written-independently%E2%80%99/article14375603.ece

Diverse opinions emerged on the role of Nizam and the circumstances that led to merger Hyderabad State with Indian Union at a Round Table here while several speakers opined that the history of Telangana freedom struggle against Nizam’s rule and merger of Hyderabad should be written independently as the existing history had several distortions. The Round Table on “Hyderabad Case in the Annals of the United Nations Security Council” was organised by Dr. M. Channa Reddy Memorial Trust on Wednesday. Speakers had varied opinions on whether September 17 was a day of ‘merger’ or ‘liberation’ or ‘accession’ or ‘occupation’ but some said that September 17 had no relevance in Hyderabad history as the Nizam continued to be the ruler till January 26, 1950. Telangana activist and writer, V. Prakash argued that the Indian government sent military to Hyderabad with an eye on the gold reserves with the Nizam, huge tracts of land and the fear that Communist rule would prevail here. Mr. Prakash said Hyderabad continues to be an issue at the United Nations and legally the issue can be raked up again though it would always remain a part of India with people’s wish. In fact, Indira Gandhi had almost decided to make Telangana a separate State in 1971 but had to withdraw her decision with her advisers warning on the pending issue at the UN Security Council. Historian Chiranjeevi Kolluri differed with opinion that Nizam was a tyrannical ruler, and said Nizam was a secular ruler and that is why he favoured Hyderabad remain as an independent nation as both India and Pakistan were being divided on communal lines. Telangana protagonist, L. Pandu Ranga Reddy argued that military action was to save Nizam from from Razakars and they had to play the role of police once Hyderabad was merged with India. Syed Amin Jafri, MLC from AIMIM said independent research was needed to write the right history between the period of India’s freedom to merger of Hyderabad with Indian Union as both Communists and Sangh Parivar had been projecting distorted history. Former Minister, Marri Shashidhar Reddy said opinions of historians and researchers will be taken into account to prepare a document on the issue. 