http://www.thehindu.com/entertainment/%E2%80%98I-am-a-Malayali-at-heart%E2%80%99/article14383538.ece

Not many actresses in Malayalam cinema can boast a filmography as that of Shari. She has some powerful roles to her credit, starting with a pivotal character in Padmarajan’s Deshadanakkili Karayaarilla, a movie much ahead of its times. Then came her state-award winning performance in Namukku Paarkkan Munthirithoppukal, another Padmarajan classic.Films such as Oru Maymaasappulariyil, Jaathakam, Nombarathipoovu, Season, Aparan, Ponmuttayidunna Thaaravu... made the hazel-eyed Shari a favourite of the Malayali audience, despite the fact that she is not a Malayali. Marriage and motherhood kept her away for some time before she returned to filmdom with character roles. Shafi’s Chocolate was her comeback movie and she was last seen in Jilebi. Shari is currently acting in the daily soap, ‘Nilavum Nakshatrangalum’ on Amrita TV. Her character is Sethulakshmy, married to a doctor, Mahendran (Vijay Menon). Their daughter, Sreenandana, is due to get married but an episode from the past throws Sethu’s life out of gear and the happy family falls apart. In a free-wheeling chat, the affable actress talks about her connect with Malayalam cinema and her career:Back on televisionI had worked in serials such as ‘Sindooram’ and ‘Snehadaram’ many years ago. Although I have been getting many offers, I was busy with my family commitments that I couldn’t take them up. My family comes first for me. Also, I wanted to work on something other than the usual tear-jerkers. ‘Nilavum Nakshatrangalum’ has such good a script that I just couldn’t say no. Also, my daughter, Kalyani, is now in her final year of college and so I have time on my hands. My family, especially Kalyani, encouraged me to take up the role.‘Nilavum Nakshatrangalum’Sethulakshmi is a strong character, I fell in love with the role in the very first scene. Director, G. R. Krishnan, and other members of the crew are very supportive. Be it the dialogues or the making, it is very realistic. It was also nice working with Vijay Menon after a long time. Roles to rememberPadmarajan sir gave me a gem of role in Deshadanakkili.... I was in class 10 then. It was not easy to grasp the character in full at such an age. Also, the language was new for me. So, I give all credit to my director and the cast and crew of the film for whatever appreciation that has come my way. I had very little idea about Malayalam films when the role was offered to me. (Laughs) Actually, all of us at home had quite a negative impression about Malayalam movies. I didn’t even know who Padmarajan was! However, he came home and convinced us. He was confident that I could pull off the role. Later,when he offered me Namukku Paarkkan... I didn’t have to think twice to sign up for it. Padmarajan sir predicted that I would win an award for it. Although people talk more about Sophie of Namukku Paarkkan..., Sally of Deshadanakkili... is closer to my heart because that’s my first film.Old vs. newThe new crop of artistes and filmmakers are very smart. They know everything. When I was a debutant, I was never this confident about anything, be it acting, my body language, my looks...which is not the case with the present generation. I enjoy working with youngsters. They bring in so much positive energy and I also feel young.The Malayali connectMy parents are from Andhra Pradesh and I grew up in Chennai. But it is here in Kerala that I got maximum recognition as an actress. My real name is Sadhana and it was Padmarajan sir who changed it to Shari. Apparently, he was such a huge fan of (actress) Sharada that he coined it from her name. When he first suggested the name to me I was apprehensive because I thought people would make fun of me, calling me ‘sari’. That said, the name and the industry has turned out to be lucky for me. Many people think that I am a Malayali and I never bother to correct them! I feel so happy that my films are loved by the new generation as well. At present, I am working on a Tamil serial also, ‘Kalyanam Mudhal Kadhal Varai’, the remake of the Hindi serial ‘Yeh Hai Mohabbatein’, in which I am cast as a Malayali. I am very much a Malayali at heart. (‘Nizhalum Nakshatrangalum’ is aired Monday to Friday on Amrita TV at 7.30 p.m.)