http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Madurai/%E2%80%98Simplify-procedures-for-pensioners%E2%80%99/article14463221.ece

 Highlighting that even his pension was stopped for nearly eight months for not submitting his Aadhar card and life certificate, K. Chandru, retired Judge of the Madras High Court, stressed on the need for simplifying the procedures for pensioners.Inaugurating the second State-level conference of Tamil Nadu Government All Departments Pensioners’ Association (TNGPA) here on Saturday, Mr. Chandru said that while he could visit the concerned office multiple times to get his pension, many elders found it difficult. “People aged 80 and above are often brought in stretchers and wheel-chairs to the offices to prove that they are alive. With advancement in technology like biometrics, some solution can be found to avoid such difficulties,” he said.Mr. Chandru criticised the Tamil Nadu Government’s appointment of an expert committee to discuss the possibility of bringing back the Old Pension Scheme as a delaying tactic. “The government knows that the employees associations want the new Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) to be repealed. Still, it is asking the associations to provide suggestions to the committee, which is not needed,” he said.Highlighting issues with the changes made in the pension schemes, Mr. Chandru said, “There is one set of government employees who need not contribute for their pension, another group which has to contribute for their pension and a third group which will not get pension at all. There is so much discrimination even within the government sector.”He also criticised the government’s plan to invest pensioners’ money in share markets and foreign institutions, which had the risk of pensioners’ losing their savings in the future. Pointing out the importance of pensioners’ forming association to fight for the rights, Mr. Chandru, however, pitched for community participation and the need for pensioners to contribute to the society.“For instance, retired teachers can contribute two to three hours daily to teach the children in the neighbourhood. Similarly, people retired from other professions can contribute in their respective areas,” he said.N.L. Seetharan, state president of TNGPA, welcomed the guests while P. Krishnamoorthy, state general secretary, presented the activity report. N. Jeyachanran, state treasurer, presented the budget during the conference.