http://www.thehindu.com/society/span-classng_TypographyTagspan-classng_TypographyTag%E2%80%9CWe-become-span-classng_TypographyTagakkas-and-annas-spanto-these-children%E2%80%9Dspanspan/article14453894.ece

“We are mad,” jokes Rahul Rajesh. He is a volunteer at Make A Difference (MAD), Coimbatore Chapter, and is part of their Shelter Support team. He says the idea of working with children was the draw. He, like his friends, enjoy spending time with them. “We don’t see this just as charity work, but a much more personal affair,” he says.The MAD team in Coimbatore consists of 135 volunteers, most of who are in their 20s. The core team consists of 14 Fellows. They work with a few shelter homes in the city that take care of orphaned, abandoned and under-priveldged children. “Our work is all about ensuring they have a smooth transition from childhood to adults,” says Vignesh Surendran, another volunteer who works with children in classes 11th and 12th and those in colleges as well. There are different Verticals under MAD such as Propele, Ed support, Funds Raising and Public Relation. The Propele members tutor the 11th and 12th children and also a few college students. While the Ed support team handles children between the fifth and tenth standards. “There is no hierarchy. No one is a superior to the other. The existing structure is just to dispatch work systematically,” says Florica Prabu, the Human Capital Fellow. The volunteers aid the children in their regular studies through activities, discussions and games. So don’t be surprised to hear a debate on Kabali when you walk into a MAD class! “They are fearless and they become more honest in our classes than when they are at schools,” says Gnana Suthan, Centre Head, Sevashram, one of the shelters they work in. The Fellows are more than mere teachers. “Most of these children study in corporation schools that have classes with a minimum strength of 40. The teachers can’t pay them too much attention. Whereas, one Ed support volunteer in MAD takes on only five students under him and a Propel fellow just one,” explains Vignesh.Educating children was the initial goal of MAD but that has evolved. “We want to enable the child’s holistic development. That includes giving emotional support as well,” says Fellow Joshua Jacob Thomas.The best thing about being a young team is that children take to them easily. “We become akkas and annas to these children. Many of them come from broken families. The younger ones, especially, open up to us. Some children have told us they wait the entire week to see us,” says Akshay Thangavel, City Team Lead. The sad part is there is no one to guide them. “We make sure we put them on the right path, inform them of career choices and give them a sense of family. We know it is a slow process. It will take some time for any change to happen,” says Florica. After the classes, the volunteers meet and share their experiences. They also have to discuss their lesson plan with mentors. There is one mentor for every 15 volunteers.  MAD raises fund through entertaining events. For instance, the Coimbatore team organised back-a-thon three years ago in Ooty, where people walked backwards to raise their voice against illiteracy on the World Literacy Day. They also teamed up with Shree Natya Niketan to organise a cultural fest called Samarpana, which raised around Rs.1.2 lakhs. There are three core MAD values, says Vignesh. “We are asked to place cause above the self, take leadership through ownership and internalise a sense of family.” Some find it difficult to imbibe the third aspect. “In the early phase of my stint in MAD, I approached my tasks mechanically. I would go to class, take lessons and then come out. It took me a little time to understand the importance of striking an emotional chord with the fellow volunteers.”Their programmes ensure that atleast the relationship between the volunteer and the child gets personal and deep. For instance, at the MAD Dream Camps, children are taken on experiential and educative field trips. Such outings facilitate communication. “The idea is to open their eyes to a world outside their shelters. We have conducted camps in Ooty and Anaikatti. We make bonds for life during these occasions,” says Akshay. It is not just altruism insists Vignesh, but a sense of satisfaction that drives them. After interacting with these children, many of them have stopped cribbing about what they lack. Says Florica, “We have learnt to appreciate the little things in life. Some of these children have gone through worse things than what we can even imagine. I have become a happier person.”MAD team in Coimbatore is looking for volunteers and donors. For details, call or WhatsApp 96555-00083, 96556-12121, 96555-09141 or register online through makeadiff.in. 